on why the Red Air Force Commander did not wipe out the United Nations Air Forces opposing him.'"”7! Some part of the inability of the Communists to employ their superior numbers in all-out air battles was attributable to a lack of skilled aircrews, but the controlling circumstance of air superiority in Korea was better summed up by Colonel Hampton, when he concluded: "The Communists feared to use their local air forces decisively because the United States had warned that any extension of the Korean war might bring down upon the aggressor the awesome force of the US Global air-atomic power." 92 The second lesson," General F erguson said ina discussion of the employment of tactical air power in Korea,  was the most profitable attacks were those made deep in enemy territory where supplies, materiel, and personnel are fairly well concentrated. As supplies and men are moved closer to the line of contact, dispersal greatly reduces the effectiveness of air attacks. Consequently, where it is operationally feasible, tactical air should place the major emphasis for its interdiction program against those lucrative and concentrated targets which necessarily lie deeper in enemy territory.  Few of the United Nations air actions in Korea drew more criticism than the comprehensive railway interdiction attacks prosecuted between August 1951 and May 1952, the air campaign which was popularly described as Operation Strangle. Gen Lemuel C. Shepherd, commandant of the Marine Corps, stated that Operation Strangle was "recognized as a fizzle." And Vice Adm J. J. Clark, the Seventh Fleet’s commander, observed: "The interdiction program was a failure. It  350  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 372 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  did not interdict.'"™4 In retrospect, Weyland admitted that Strangle was a poorly conceived name because it gave critics who did not understand the real objective of the railway interdiction a vehicle for proclaiming its failure. He insisted, however, that t