ed the Tactical School critique, "is the attack of those vital objectives in a nation’s economic structure which will tend to paralyze that nation’s ability to wage war and thus contribute to the attainment of the ultimate objective of war, namely, the disintegration of the will to resist." When employed from bases in the United States, the GHO Air Force would have such a limited range that the only positive way in which it could ensure the success of the Army would be to defeat the hostile air force. The possibility of simultaneously defeating the hostile air force and of attacking the enemy army in support of friendly ground forces was described as an alluring but false doctrine. Only if the hostile air force were defeated would occasions arise when the GHO Air Force would be able to attack targets in direct support of the ground battle.  77  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 99 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Very little of the thought contained in the Air Corps Tactical School critique appeared in the final draft of the War Plans Division paper that was officially published as the revised War Department Training Regulation 440-15 on 15 October 1935. This regulation defined air power as "the power which a nation is capable of exerting by means of its air forces." But, it stated, "Air forces further the mission of the territorial or tactical commands to which they are assigned." It contemplated that a phase of air operations would probably precede the contact of the surface forces and that the outcome of this phase would exert a potent influence upon subsequent operations. The functions of the GHQ Air Force included air operations beyond the sphere of influence of the ground forces, in immediate support of the ground forces, or in coastal defense and other Army-Navy operations. The regulation stated that the effect which air forces were capable of producing and the extent to which they would influence warfare was still undetermined. Complete control of t