of the proposition expressed by General Schriever: "Space ...is a medium in which many military missions can be accomplished more effectively. Actually, it can be better understood when it is viewed as just what it is, an extension of a medium — aerospace." °7 The tacit acceptance of the concept that space was a continuum beyond the atmosphere was practical, but it was not without limitations. So-called space systems, for example, would not be developed as a means for exploiting a medium but rather in terms of existing military requirements. "The major criterion for the choice of a particular system to satisfy a particular military requirement," explained Lt Gen Roscoe C. Wilson, Air Force deputy chief of staff for development, in February 1960, "must be the relative effectiveness of that system compared with other methods of doing the same job." Thus, orbital or space systems could be developed only if they would perform an essential military mission which could be performed in no other way, perform an essential military mission more effectively at a justifiable increase in cost, or perform an essential military mission in an acceptable manner at a reduced cost.  Establishment of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration  "I think you ought to realize," stated Dr T. Keith Glennan, who assumed duty as the first administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) at its establishment on 1 October 1958, "that NASA was born out of a state of hysteria." "9? Tn the same months that national leaders were attempting to provide a military organization for aerospace, they were also confronting the even more complex problem of establishing a national space program. In order to get guidance in this unknown field, President Eisenhower announced on 7 November 1957 the appointment of Dr James R. Killian, Jr., president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, as presidential scientific adviser. One of Killian’s first tasks was to visualize a nat