f Staff, Gen Omar N. Bradley and Adm Arthur W. Radford as former chairmen of the Joint Chiefs, William C. Foster as a former deputy secretary of defense, Nelson A. Rockefeller as chairman of the President’s Advisory Committee on Government Reorganization, and retired Gen Alfred M. Gruenther. These men spent some six weeks conducting interviews within and without the Department of Defense before preparing draft legislation that was incorporated in a report that McElroy submitted to Eisenhower. Even before this McElroy had obtained the president’s advice on key points on several occasions, and Eisenhower approved the suggested legislation with only a few changes. McElroy later disclosed that he and Eisenhower considered and rejected such proposals as a single armed forces chief of staff, a merger of the armed services, and the establishment of assistant secretaries of defense for the Army, Navy, and Air Force in place of existing service secretaries. They also rejected the Rockefeller panel’s recommendations that the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff be made the principal military adviser to the president and the defense secretary, that the Joint Staff be organized on a unified basis and placed under the control of the chairman who would then shape strategic planning, and that all military forces  580  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 602 --- IMPACT OF MISSILES AND SPACE  should be assigned organically to unified commands. "I would say," General Twining added, "that our concept of the Joint Chiefs of Staff organization as written in the administration bill is not along the same philosophy as the Rockefeller report."  As he had promised to do, President Eisenhower transmitted a message to Congress on 3 April 1958 in which he discussed the administrative and legislative changes that he considered essential in the Department of Defense. In explanation of his reasoning, Eisenhower stated:  First, separate ground, sea and air warfare is gone forever. If eve