mended that the time had come to reorganize all of the offensive elements of the Air Force into an "Air Offensive Command" under a single air commander. "With control of our air forces piecemealed throughout the world," he warned, "we need lose only in one area to insure the destruction of our own country. ... Whether we choose to recognize it or not, SAC and TAC are bedfellows. .. . As a matter of top priority, for reasons of national survival, they must deter together through their ability to defeat Communist air power together." Given a combination of the Strategic and Tactical Air Commands, LeMay thought that the Air Force could more logically "take a united stand in pursuit of its ultimate objective of achieving unified control of all air offensive forces, regardless of service, under a single air commander."  441  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 463 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  "I have stressed the indivisibility of air power and the necessity of centralized control of air resources," said General Weyland after assuming command of the Tactical Air Command in 1954, "as much as any man alive." From his headquarters at Langley AFB, Weyland set out to develop the Tactical Air Command into a jack-of-all-trades element of offensive air power as well as a supporting force for surface operations. The strategic tactical air forces appeared to him to be an offensive capability that would be applied against a spectrum of targets comprising "an unbroken chain from field, mine, and forest to the battle area." Speaking of the target spectrum, Weyland explained: "There is no sharp line of demarcation, there is a desirable area of overlap, and, by close coordination, strategic and tactical air forces can and do complement and assist each other without duplication of effort."2°7 In spite of these beliefs, he took a firm stand against LeMay’s concept of a single offensive force. Weyland favored a single service that would integrate the offensive capabilities of a