r aircraft. "With regard to the air defense of the homeland," the group stated, "the strategy of using intercepting fighters has become a thing of the past. The homeland cannot be adequately defended without long-range attacking air power."2? The Red Chinese assumed that the Soviets outfitted them with MiG-15s out of necessity, but the decision might well have been based upon Soviet desires to prevent the expansion of the Korean conflict. Speaking frankly at a later date, Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov inferred that the Soviet Union had made determined efforts to prevent the Korean conflagration from spreading. "When all facts are known," Molotov said, "you will realize that we acted as a restraining influence."  Air Power and Armistice Negotiations  "The beginning of the Korean truce negotiations between United Nations and Communist delegates at Kaesong in July 1951," General Weyland observed, "ushered in a new phase of the war. ... Both the enemy and we had abandoned our identical political objectives of unifying all of Korea by force, and both had given up the military objectives of capture and control. The political and military objectives of each side became the same — the accomplishment of an armistice on favorable terms.""°> When he assumed command of the Far East Air Forces in June 1951, Weyland noted that his command, employing a "minimum force which, for the most part, has been equipped and manned below authorized levels" had already "clearly indicated that air operations have been one of the most decisive elements in stopping the enemy’s offensives and reducing his capacity to wage ground warfare.” Making another strategic estimate on 12 July, Weyland pointed out in a message to Vandenberg that the Communists might well take advantage of the armistice negotiations and attempt to seize control of the air. In this event, he argued that Vandenberg should provide the Far East Air Forces with "the  336  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 358 -