ply." As a result of a visit to Italy, the Bolling commission was evidently favorably impressed with Italian bombing raids against Austria, and the commission recommended that the United States should purchase Caproni biplanes and the license to manufacture Caproni triplanes.>> The strongest influence on the Bolling commission, however, was undoubtedly Lt Col William Mitchell. While on the War Department General Staff in 1915, Mitchell made a directed survey of US aviation needs. In 1916, Mitchell, now a member of the Signal Corps, Aviation Section, took flight instruction at his own expense and became an aviation enthusiast. Sent to Europe as an observer, Mitchell arrived in Paris four days after the United States entered the war. In May 1917, Mitchell spent several days visiting the headquarters of Maj Gen Hugh  20  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 42 --- THROUGH WORLD WARI  Trenchard, the Royal Air Force (RAF) commander in France. Mitchell learned that Trenchard’s policy was to unify all aviation under one commander, to place the minimum number of airplanes necessary for the use of ground troops in action with each army, and to concentrate the bulk of bombardment and pursuit so that he could "hurl a mass of aviation at any one locality needing attack." When Gen John J. Pershing arrived in Paris to take command of the American Expeditionary Forces on 13 June, Mitchell assumed the duty of chief of air service, American Expeditionary Forces. In this position, Mitchell worked intimately with the Bolling commission while it was preparing its recommendations to Washington.2°  Back in Washington, the Joint Army-Navy Technical Board accepted the Bolling commission recommendations as being essentially sound; and the idea of conducting an air war against the Germans apparently caught the fancy of the American people. However, fanciful statements made by Secretary Baker and other people in authority as to the tremendous numbers of American planes that would delu