the Air Force issued a general operational requirement for a hypersonic strategic bombardment system on 12 May 1955; nevertheless, research and development planners doubted the advisability of investing scarce funds in such a system. The satellite reconnaissance system merited priority funding and the X-15 research aircraft project could well provide data regarding the reentry of amanned orbital vehicle into the atmosphere. In March 1956, the Air Force, therefore, concluded another study contract with Bell for a research study visualizing a piloted boost-glide reconnaissance weapon system to be known as Brass Bell. This reconnaissance system was to be kept separate from the Bomi, now to be known as the rocket bomber or Robo. In November 1956 the Air Research and Development Command formulated a system requirement for a hypersonic weapon research and development supporting system called Hywards. This vehicle was to serve as a test craft for the development of subsystems to be employed in future boost-glide systems.  The significance of advanced boost-glide systems was enhanced on 15 February 1956, when General Power, then commander of the. Air Research and Development Command, stated that Soviet technological progress was so marked that the United States ought to stop considering new and novel projects and start developing some of them. During fiscal year 1957, the Air Force was unable to allocate funds for a manned glide-rocket. In April 1957, however, the Air Force directed that the Air Research and Development Command consolidate Hywards, Brass Bell, and Robo into one project. The resultant product provided by this command on 10 October 1957 was the Dyna-Soar (a compound of dynamic soaring) program that appeared feasible for accomplishment in three stages: Dyna-Soar I, an experimental glider; Dyna-Soar II, a reconnaissance vehicle; and Dyna-Soar III, a bombardment system. On 15 November 1957 the Air Force approved the Dyna-Soar development plan and allocated resea