estroyed as far as possible from a defended area. "The principle of air defense," General White explained, "should be to strike the enemy just as far from his target as possible. The best defense is to hit him before he gets off the ground with his bomber or with his missile. . . . The worst and last-ditch business is over his intended target over here,"!07  In 1957 General Taylor, along with other Army representatives, urged the secretary of defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff to accept a "crash $6 billion program in order to achieve an operational capability with the Nike-Zeus by 1961."1°8 At this same time the Air Force took a more measured look at the nation’s defense requirements. The Air Force believed that the Soviet Union could have an initial operational capability with prototype intercontinental ballistic missiles sometime between mid-1958 and mid-1959 but would not be able to rely solely on this small capability to launch an attack against the United States. Thus, until about 1962, any attack against the United States would have to be made by a mass of Soviet aircraft supplemented by intercontinental ballistic missiles. Based on these estimates the Air Force visualized a requirement for an air defense system that could counter a mixed-force threat. Since the Soviets would undoubtedly aim their missiles at American strategic retaliatory forces, the immediate Air Force objective was to provide three ballistic missile early warning sites that—with 3,000-mile-range radar developed from the Milestone Hill model— could provide approximately 15 minutes warning of the arrival of hostile ballistic missiles. This short warning time would permit the Strategic Air Command to launch at least a part of its strategic retaliatory force and might save the lives of many people who then would have at least a little time to take cover.’” Other than this plan, General White was willing to admit that the nation’s air defenses were not what they should be. "The active air def