blood. You had mass killings there, sometimes for years before these vital centers were reached. It led to the theory that the hostile army in the field was the main objective, which it was. Once having been conquered, the vital centers would be gotten at. ... Now we can get today to these vital centers by air power. .. . So that, in the future, we will strike, in case of armed conflict, when all other means of settling disputes have failed, to go straight to the vital centers, the industrial centers, through the use of an air force and hit them. That is the modern theory of making war.  49  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 71 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Four years later in Skyways, the last of his three books, Mitchell would again emphasize this theory of war.  Although the Morrow board report dampened any general reorganization of the armed services, the War Department was prepared to grant some concessions, but not much independence, to the Air Service. On 26 January 1926 the War Department officially issued Training Regulation No. 440-15, Fundamental Principles for the Employment of the Air Service — the same pamphlet that had been drafted by Major Sherman in 1921 and that had been revised and accepted as a policy statement by the Office of Chief of Air Service. Subsequently, it had been reviewed by the Army’s Command and General Staff School and War College, and the General Staff's G-3 division had stamped final approval on it. The pamphlet noted that the primary objective of the whole Army was to destroy hostile armed forces and that the mission of the Air Service was "to assist the ground forces to gain strategical and tactical successes by destroying enemy aviation, attacking enemy ground forces and other enemy objectives on land or sea, and in conjunction with other agencies to protect ground forces from hostile aerial observation and attack. In addition it furnishes aerial observation for information and for artillery fire, and also provides messeng