ef of air service, line of communication. Maj Edgar S. Gorrell, a young aeronautical engineer who had come to France with Bolling, was detailed in charge of the Air Service, Technical Section, in Paris. Gorrell was in charge of initiating purchases of air materiel in Europe. His studies led him to believe that the United States should purchase or build a sufficiently large number of night bombers to carry out a systematic bombardment of Germany. Gorrell believed that a force of from 3,000 to 6,000 bombers would be adequate for this purpose. What the influence of Caproni had been on the original Bolling commission report may only be speculative, but in October 1917 both Bolling and Gorrell were in active correspondence with the Italian aircraft manufacturer. Sometime during October, Caproni collaborated with his friend Capt Giulio Douhet in the preparation of a "Memorandum on the ‘Air War’ for the US Air Service," which urged that mass attacks made at night by long-range Allied bombers against industrial targets deep within Germany and Austria definitely could overwhelm the enemy by substantially reducing his war production at the same time that Allied production was increasing. That same month, Caproni gave Gorrell a little book signed by Nino Salveneschi and entitled Let Us Kill the War; Let Us Aim at the Heart of the Enemy. Evidently written by a journalist to represent Caproni’s views, this small, English-text book was a further exposition of the concept of strategic bombardment. In November 1917 Bolling personally advised Howard Coffin, the chairman of the Aircraft Production Board in Washington, that the United States ought to give a higher priority to the production and procurement of bomber aircraft than to observation and fighter aircraft.  When General Foulois arrived in Paris in November 1917, he divided the Air Service, Zone of Advance, into Tactical Aviation and Strategical Aviation and placed Colonel Gorrell in charge of the latter organization, which w