- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 57 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  new position other than to advise upon Air Service matters.” Mitchell was also relieved as chief of the Training and Operations Group. Majors Milling and Sherman, having lost their wartime ranks, were transferred to the new Air Service Field Officers School, which the War Department had authorized at Langley Field, Virginia, on 25 March 1920. The Training and Operations Group continued to be responsible for prescribing tactical methods and enunciating tactical doctrine. But, hampered by a serious loss of personnel, the group tended to retrogress in its doctrinal thinking. Prepared by the old regime and printed in April 1920, the Air Service’s Aerial Bombardment Manual looked to the future. "Bombardment from occupying a practically nonexistent and unimportant part in the war," it asserted, "has become a very important branch of the Air Service, and it is believed by many that if carried out in sufficient numbers it will win:a war." But no such forward-looking thoughts appeared in the next edition of this same manual, which was issued in September 1920 after the reassignments and cutbacks of personnel. This latter edition of Aerial Bombardment was, in fact, little more than a reprint of the manual that had been prepared by the Air Service, AEF.”  Since he now lacked formal duties in the Air Service, Mitchell spent much of his time presenting the argument for a separate aeronautical department to the public and continuing the aircraft versus naval vessels controversy.’” During the winter of 1920-21 he wrote Our Air Force, which summarized his views on aviation. He predicted that future wars would include the destruction of entire cities by airborne gas attacks. "As a prelude to any engagement of military or naval forces," he predicted, "a contest must take place for control of the air. The first battles of any future war will be air battles. The nation winning them is practically certain to win the whole wa