erican missile-space technology. In an address to the American people on 7 November 1957, President Dwight D. Eisenhower stated that "such things as alleged inter-service competition" would "not be allowed to create even the suspicion of harm to our scientific and development program." In his State of the Union message to Congress on 9 January 1958, Eisenhower noted that "some of the important new weapons which technology has produced do not fit into any existing service pattern" and that some of them "defy classification according to branch of service." As soon as studies were completed Eisenhower promised to send Congress a recommendation for a defense reorganization that would "achieve real unity" and "end inter-service disputes.”!  The Defense Reorganization Act of 1958  At the conclusion of its exhaustive air power hearings, Senator Stuart Symington’s special investigating subcommittee had already made recommendations regarding a need for defense reorganization in a report made public on 25 January 1957. This report charged that the Department of Defense had "permitted duplication, even triplification, among the three services in the development and production of missiles," had "permitted comparable waste in the allocation to the three services of responsibility in the missile field," and had "delayed in giving overriding priority to the ballistic missile program." The Symington subcommittee concluded: "The duplicating approach characteristic of many research and development programs in the Department of Defense, along with the dollar limitations established for such programs, has retarded needed modernization of weapon systems. These policies have retarded important scientific breakthroughs. They contrast with Soviet policies which have produced extraordinary Soviet progress in the research and development field."  Many of the witnesses who appeared before the numerous congressional committees that investigated missile and space problems in the winter of 1957-