e maneuver, called for the development of air task forces (including transport planes) built around the modern bombers. He also recommended that the time had come to establish an Air Corps board with experienced membership, which could study and recommend policy for the ultimate development of the air force.2?  On 12 September, General Foulois, in an appearance before the Army War College, defined air power "as the strength of a nation in its ability to strike offensively in the air" and stated that the size of the air force should "be determined as that which can operate successfully against that amount of hostile aviation to which it may be opposed on our frontiers." He stated that "the real effective air defense will consist of our ability to attack and destroy the hostile aviation on the ground before it takes to the air." In response to a question put to him on this same  68  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 90 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  occasion at the Army War College, General Westover explained: "Within the Army Air Corps, there has been a growing conviction that we have got to come down to practically two types of aircraft. One type designed in general for the patrol missions, and the other designed for the high-powered, bombing offensive missions with sufficient machine gun fire power to protect itself. :  Although it is impossible to assess the exact degree of influence the ideas of Giulio Douhet had upon the development of American air power doctrine, there is no doubt that Air Corps thinkers were familiar with Douhet’s writings. Copies of Douhet’s "The War of 19... ," which appeared in Revista Aeronautica in March 1930 were in the Air Corps Tactical School library as early as November 1931.7! In 1933 Capt George C. Kenney, who had been an instructor at the Air Corps Tactical School from 1927 to 1929 and was assigned as chief of the Air Corps Plans Division between 1933 and 1935, made a translation of an epitome of Douhet’s ideas, which appeared in t