nd." Allied forces, Royall continued, "never stopped the launching of the V-bombs, and never engaged in any material damage to them or to the submarine pens, until the infantry did so from the ground, despite the enormous bombing and almost unopposed bombing of Europe for a considerable period of time, and in great volume."!4? "Although I am personally convinced that Air Power will again be the dominant factor," said Gen J. Lawton Collins in October 1948, "I’m equally convinced that Air Power alone cannot win the war. . . . It took, and it will again take, in my opinion, the combined operations of land, sea and air forces to reach a conclusion."  Although the Navy appeared somewhat less enthusiastic about the "team" concept than did the Army, the theater commanders of the Pacific war — General MacArthur and Admiral Nimitz— saw the defeat of Japan as a victory of combined forces. "The victory was a triumph for the concept of the three dimensions of war — ground, sea and air," MacArthur stated in October 1945. He added: "By a thorough use of each arm in conjunction with the corresponding utilization of the other two, the enemy was reduced to a condition of helplessness. By largely avoiding methods involving the separate use of the services and by avoiding methods of frontal assault as far as possible, our combined power forced the surrender.""“? Admiral Nimitz thought in 1945 that without the atomic bombs the surrender of Japan "would have taken a longer time," but he thought that the victory resulted from  the strangulation of her industry, her being cut off from all supplies, her lack of gasoline, her inability to get raw materials from China. . .. Such gasoline as they had was stored in places from which it could not be distributed, because the transportation systems had been destroyed by the air attacks; the very efficient destruction carried on by the B-29s.  169  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 191 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  It was just a question of ti