s indicate those tasks which they can do better or cheaper. In most respects, however, missile systems are complementary and not competitive." ?  As it had been projected to do, the Strategic Air Command completed its expansion to the 51 wings authorized to it under the 137-wing program in May 1956. But even as this objective was accomplished, the changing world environment was already rendering that force level obsolete and it was apparent that the Air Force could not support 137 wings and continue to modernize them without additional appropriations. Based on an appreciation of the fact that "the number of bombers we require is a function of the targets we must hit, the time period in which our strikes must be completed, the effectiveness of the enemy warning and defense system and the degree of protection and dispersal we can provide our force against his attacks," General Twining agreed that the Strategic Air Command needed additional B-52s. In preparing the fiscal year 1958 budget estimates, Twining asked the Joint Chiefs of Staff to accept a requirement for six additional B-52 wings, making a total of 17 heavy bombardment wings. Given the development of air-to-surface standoff missile, Twining estimated that the B-52 could continue to be an effective delivery system through 1965 and very probably beyond that period. As long as the Strategic Air Command’s medium bomber groups had been equipped with relatively slow B-36 bombers, SAC required strategic fighter aircraft. However, the B-52s would be expected to defend themselves and SAC’s six fighter-type wings could be eliminated, thus making way for higher priority  511  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 533 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  programs. According to Twining, the Joint Chiefs of Staff refused to accept the requirement for expanding the number of B-52 wings, particularly since the aircraft complement of each of the 11 B-52 wings was being expanded from 30 to 45 aircraft. As a result, the Air Force bud