ted: "It is agreed that the primary task is to deter war. ... It is also agreed that the principal deterrent to aggressive war is mobile retaliatory power. ... It is also agreed that it would be imprudent to risk everything on one single aspect of military power. There must be land, sea, and air forces for local action and for a defense which will give mobile striking power the chance to do its work.'”"” At anews conference on 16 J uly, Dulles spoke of a need for making the NATO allies less dependent upon the United States and revealed that the United States was studying ways whereby "through perhaps a NATO stockpile of weapons and various arrangements of that sort, there can be assurances to our allies that, if they are attacked, if war comes, they will not then be in the position of suppliants, as far as we are concerned, for the use of atomic weapons."28 On the basis of the 22 April address, General Taylor hoped that Dulles might support the Army in the discussions on 25 July before the National Security Council. Taylor reported, however, that Dulles remained silent and that the State Department representatives had an "attitude of curious detachment." "It was," he recalled, "as if they felt that conflicts in the Pentagon were what the Japanese call ‘a fire on the other side of the river."  A few weeks after becoming Air Force chief of staff, General White assembled the Air Force commanders in Washington on 27 August to discuss and mature an  462  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 484 --- STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS  Air Force position on local wars, which White subsequently approved. This position stated that the Air Force requirements in any local war situation could be met with forces and resources provided for general war purposes; that local war operations could be supported from available stocks and facilities, provided some minimum calculated risks were assumed; that a local war could spread into a general war and that failure to make such an assumption could