Tactical Air Command with the Third Army, and the XXIX Tactical Air Command with the Ninth Army. Each of these tactical air commands possessed microwave ground control interception radars, and their fighter-bomber groups were employed alternatively as required either for defense or for air support. With the demise of the dive-bomber, the US air forces modified the P-47 to serve as a tactical fighter-bomber, and the P-47 fighter, although originally designed as a high-altitude interceptor, proved to be superb in this new role. The radical air-cooled engine on this plane made it less vulnerable to hostile ground fire than was the P-51, which had an in-line liquid-cooled engine. To permit flexibility, medium bombers and tactical reconnaissance aircraft were retained under the direct command of the Ninth Air Force. The reconnaissance aircraft flew missions requested by army and air force units. They also proved invaluable in leading fighter-bombers directly to targets of opportunity. While many Army officers questioned the inherent wisdom of such a centralization of reconnaissance capabilities, Gens Courtney H. Hodges, George S. Patton, Jr., and W. H. Simpson, the commanders of the First, Third, and Ninth US Armies respectively, expressed their individual approval of the tactical air reconnaissance system.!”° By March 1945, Lt Gen Walter Bedell Smith, the chief of staffto General Eisenhower, noted that "the tactical coordination of air and ground forces has become an instrument of precision timing."  In Europe all air force capabilities were available for the support of the surface campaign. Even though heavy bombardment was employed on occasion to augment tactical bomber forces (most notably on 25 July 1944 when 1,508 heavy bombers softened the German lines at Saint Lé preparatory to the First Army’s breakthrough out of Normandy), the outstanding contribution of the heavy bombers to the overall ground campaign was the elimination of the Luftwaffe as an effective fighti