of the controversy apparently gave the Air Staff some difficulty since it had previously approved the "Air University Doctrine." However, on 9 March 1951 the Air Force directed that the Joint Training Directive  382  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 404 --- AF WRITES ITS DOCTRINE  would be used in order to provide uniformity in all air-ground training and instruction throughout the Air Force. The Air University was instructed to provide constructive comments and recommendations that would be useful in the revision of this still tentative doctrinal directive.  The work just completed on the "Air University Doctrine" had convinced Kenney and Barker that the Air Force ought to place emphasis on the "tactical employment of air force" rather than on "the employment of tactical air force." The controversy over the Joint Training Directive required the Air University to intensify its thinking on the subject. The Air University’s concept for the command and employment of air power was that air forces be grouped logically by objectives in various echelons of command. Some air forces were to be under the immediate direction of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in order that they might carry out objectives lying beyond the immediate interest of any one theater commander or supporting more than one theater. Some air forces would be assigned to a theater commander to conduct air operations required by the theater mission. Other air forces would be assigned to the air defense of the continental United States. All wars would consist of campaigns—some defensive in purpose and some offensive—each satisfying the national war objectives in whole or in part. Theater commanders would conduct local campaigns necessary to achieve objectives assigned by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Air forces committed to a theater should be prepared (1) to conduct air campaigns to satisfy theater requirements for security against the enemy air force or deployment of enemy ground forces; (2) to participa