Truman submitted Reorganization Plan No. 8 on the National Military Establishment to Congress on 18 July, which proposed to accomplish most of the earlier legislative recommendations by executive action. While Truman preferred that Congress would act on a matter by regular legislative process, he apparently used the reorganization plan procedure to emphasize the importance of his recommendations. Since the bill passed by the House differed markedly from that  274  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 296 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  voted by the Senate, the legislation was rewritten in a conference committee in an acceptable form, and the compromise bill became law on 10 August.  The National Security Act Amendments of 1949 established the Department of Defense as the successor to the National Military Establishment, thus reducing the Departments of the Army, Navy, and Air Force to military rather than executive departments. The secretary of defense was given direction, authority, and control over the department, but the services were to be separately administered. The secretary was prohibited from transferring or consolidating any combat function, and he was required to report to Congress any reassignment of noncombat functions. The services could no longer appeal directly to the president or the Bureau of the Budget, but any service secretary or chief of staff could, after notifying the secretary of defense, make recommendations to Congress on his own initiative. The act established the position of chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who was charged to preside at meetings of the Joint Chiefs, to prepare agenda for the meetings, and to inform the president or secretary of defense of issues upon which the Joint Chiefs had not been able to agree. The act provided that the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff could not vote and that he would have no command authority. No changes were made in the existing status of the Munitions Board or in the Research and Developm