nas, chancellor of the University of Buffalo and a knowledgeable scientist, would conclude in April 1958, "we would even now I am sure not have safe commercial aviation."" In 1898, while the Spanish-American War was in progress and well before the Wright brothers made their first flight, the War Department’s Board of Ordnance and Fortification secretly had allocated $50,000 to Dr Samuel P. Langley, who subsequently was unable to produce a promised flying machine. When this information became generally known, both Congress and the press had been extremely critical of this so-called wastage of public funds.“ In reminiscences about their epic controlled- power flight at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, on 17 December 1903, Orville and Wilbur Wright always contended that they meant the airplane to be a contribution to international communications, trade, and goodwill. When they made their first efforts to sell a plane, however, the Wright brothers looked to the US War Department. "The series of aeronautical experiments upon which we have been engaged for the past five years," Orville Wright wrote on 18 January 1905, "have ended in the production of a flying machine of a type fitted for practical use.  .. The numerous flights . .. have made it quite certain that flying has been brought to a point where it can be made of great practical use in various ways, one of which is that of scouting and carrying messages in time of war.  Writing directly to the secretary of war on 9 October 1905, Orville Wright | renewed this earlier informal offer "to furnish to the War Department practical flying machines suitable for scouting purposes." 4 Still again, on 15 June 1907, he wrote: "We believe that the principal use of a flyer at present is for military purposes; that the demand in commerce will not be great for some time." Possibly as aresult of the experience with Langley, the Board of Ordnance and Fortification declined to enter into negotiations with the Wrights in October 1905 "unti