."!?” Much of this thinking on tactical nuclear weapons coincided with Gen O. P. Weyland’s already expressed belief that flexibility demanded the retention of conventional ordnance delivery characteristics in tactical aircraft.”~ A Tactical Air Command officer who visited Adana during the Lebanon crisis found a considerable doubt as to whether the CASF crews could have performed conventional weapon delivery missions, although all of them were fully qualified in the delivery of nuclear weapons. "Only a few of the F-100 pilots had strafed," he stated, "none had shot rockets or delivered  616  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 638 --- IMPACT OF MISSILES AND SPACE  conventional bombs." The B-57 crews were also regarded as "incapable of performing efficient conventional weapon delivery."  Despite a recognition that it would have had difficulty conducting a conventional, limited war operation with crews that had been trained for the delivery of nuclear weapons, the Air Force remained somewhat less than enthusiastic on the subject of conventional weapons. "We will carry out any instruction we are given," noted Lt Gen Charles S. Irvine, deputy chief of staff for materiel, "and we can fight an iron bomb war if that is what the President says he wants us to do.... We can only say if you want to destroy targets efficiently, we can do it better with a nuclear bomb." As commander in chief, US Air Forces in Europe, Gen Frederic H. Smith, Jr., believed that many men in scientific, governmental, and military circles evidently lacked an understanding that tactical nuclear weapons would be employed without destroying countries or populations. In the spring of 1960 he accordingly published an article designed "to demonstrate that not only can the intelligent use of nuclear firepower in limited war give us the greatest possible opportunity to win such wars at a minimum cost to us and to the country we may be defending against aggression, but that it is highly probable that without t