ation also provided that NASA would exercise "control over aeronautical and space research sponsored by the United States, except insofar as  597  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 619 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  such activities may be peculiar to or primarily associated with weapons systems or military operations, in which case the agency may act in cooperation with, or on behalf of, the Department of Defense."  As the legislation was originally drafted, the Department of Defense was not given a clear mandate for space activities. Speaking of this later on, Dr Edward C. Welsh, executive secretary of the National Aeronautics and Space Council, observed: "It is possible that this omission was a result of careless drafting or evidence of disinterest in military application to space or x just optimism regarding our military position relative to that of the Communists."! During April and May 1958 a progression of distinguished witnesses appeared before the House Select Committee on Astronautics and Space Explorations and the Senate Special Committee on Space and Astronautics as they held hearings on the Space Act. Many of the scientists who came before the committees argued that a civilian scientific program was essential because the nonmilitary aspects of space exploration were too important to be entrusted to a purely military program. Professor James A. Van Allen of the State University of Iowa spoke very strongly of the need for civilian supremacy in space. "I feel," he said, "the language of this bill should be strengthened substantially to make it clear that the NASA will have primary and dominant cognizance of space matters among all Government agencies, and that only in case it is clearly demonstrated that an endeavor has a direct importance to our military preparedness . . . Should the primary cognizance reside in the Defense Department. a  Believing that the favorable relations previously enjoyed with NACA would continue, Department of Defense wi