perational control over all shore-based Navy and Marine fighter aircraft in an air defense emergency. However, it provided that carrier-based fighter aircraft were an integral part of the fleet and normally could not be precommitted to any emergency operational control of the air defense commander. Marine Corps land-based  346  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 368 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  aircraft were successfully integrated into the Fifth Air Force-Eighth Army air-ground system, but Seventh Fleet aircraft could not be positively committed to ground support as long as the Naval Forces Far East had a mission in the Taiwan Straits. When relieved of this mission, the Seventh Fleet established a naval member in the Joint Operations Center in Korea in June 1953 and thereafter participated integrally in the support of the ground forces in Korea?”  The same concern that organizational diffusion might lead to a loss in air power’s inherent flexibility caused Air Force thinkers to question the division of the Air Force into strategic and tactical air arms and to reexamine the mission of tactical air forces. As engrossed in the Joint Training Directive for Air-Ground Operations, issued jointly by the Tactical Air Command and the Army Field Forces in September 1950, the mission of tactical air power was related to the strategy and maneuver of ground forces. Late in 1950, however, a study prepared by the Office of Assistant for Evaluation, Deputy Chief of Staff for Development, Headquarters USAF, suggested that tactical air power need not be related directly to the maneuver of friendly ground troops. Tactical air power might be employed directly against enemy forces in the field without any friendly ground forces being present. "In this new concept," stated the study,  tactical air power will be entering into direct combat with enemy ground forces—not only supporting our ground forces in their fight against the enemy ground forces. ... Clearly, it is not acceptable to r