oo much weight in determining the size of the military establishment, and he found that "the composition of the Armed Forces is still dominated by the Division-by-Services method, thus producing a compromised Defense Force in which the top priority functions are not provided for." lin commenting on this same matter, retired Lt Gen Ira C. Eaker agreed with the Eisenhower position that there was a very real limit to the amount of national  427  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 449 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  resources that could be committed to weapons production; nevertheless, Eaker found that the national defense budget represented a serious imbalance of 75 percent defensive forces and 25 percent offensive. "No nation," he remarked, "has won or can win from a defensive posture."® 2 Although welcoming the public announcements that the nation increasingly would emphasize air power, air-minded leaders were not entirely sure of the meaning of the New Look.  Massive Retaliation as a Strategy  In a speech before the Council of Foreign Relations in New York City on 12 January 1954, Secretary of State Dulles attempted to present an overall view of the national security policies of the Eisenhower administration. This remarkable address provided a rationale for the New Look and added a concept of "instant, massive retaliation" to the doctrine of deterrence. Dulles emphasized that often in the past the United States had reacted to Communist instigated emergencies. "Local defense," he said, "will always be important. But there is no local defense which alone will contain the mighty land power of the Communist world. Local defenses must be reinforced by the further deterrent of massive retaliatory power. A potential aggressor must know that he cannot always prescribe battle conditions that suit him." Dulles asserted: "The way to deter aggression is for the free community to be willing and able to respond vigorously at places and with means of its own choosing." He