l defense program was to be effective.716  The net effect of projects Vista and East River and of the Summer Study Group was to focus a substantial amount of attention upon the national defense strategy and inferentially upon the role to be played by the Strategic Air Command. The reports challenged the Strategic Air Command indirectly. "We raise the question whether," stated Vista,  if the United States prepares to counter Soviet aggression solely through the use of strategic air power, we will not be weakening rather than strengthening the political and psychological positions of the free nations. The Western European nations surely fear that a strategic air attack on the USSR would result in a retaliatory attack on their cities—and would at the same time not stop the march of Soviet armies before they overran all of Europe. ... On the other hand, if we plan also to use our air power (including strategic, tactical and naval units) to destroy the march of Russian armies, we can win the confidence of the NATO nations, stimulate their cooperative efforts on the political and economic fronts, increase their strength and thus discourage a Soviet attack.  Neither the Summer Study Group nor Project East River had any occasion to be concerned with the Strategic Air Command, but Berkner was critical of the strategic striking force. "The crux of our present danger," he stated,  is in our complete dependence upon the "Strategic Striking Force" as the principal element in our defense. This Maginot-Line type of thinking can be out-maneuvered by an intelligent enemy by any one of a number of ways. Opposed to the Maginot-Line concept of "putting all our eggs in one basket," is the balanced and flexible force. Because a balanced force cannot be achieved at tolerable cost through conventional means, we have ignored both the vital need for such a force and the possibility of achieving it through new and unconventional measures.  The Department of Defense and the Air Force already h