ld .. . a ballistic machine and do an efficient job of knocking out targets considering the number of dollars or manhours it would take per target. We went to the airbreathing route, a pilotless airplane, a subsonic Snark or Navaho supersonic machine, which would in its time period carry a big enough warhead and be more accurate. This appeared to be the best solution as we saw the state of the art at that time. ... Looking back at it, maybe that was a bad decision. We could have  485  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 507 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  developed a guidance for the ballistic missile while we were doing the other job. But our crystal ball was not that bright.  Col Edward N. Hall, who would become an Air Force missile expert, blamed the early decisions equally on ballistic advocates, who thought in terms of thousands of yards rather than thousands of miles, and the experts on aerodynamics who were convinced that there would always be an inverse relationship between speed and range and could not visualize a supersonic vehicle that would have a 10,000-mile range.” In effect the Air Force had assumed in its projections that there would be a period of years in which there would be a gap between piloted aircraft and ballistic missiles: this gap could be most feasibly filled by air-breathing pilotless aircraft.’  Both as a reaction to the Soviet’s explosion of an atomic weapon and in recognition that research and development had lagged in the several years that it had been subordinated to operational concerns, General Vandenberg — with more than a little prompting from Secretary of the Air Force W. Stuart Symington — reestablished a deputy chief of staff for development at the Air Staff level and established the Air Research and Development Command (ARDC) on 23 January 1950. General Saville assumed the duty as deputy chief of staff for development without delay, but the Air Research and Development Command required an evolutionary period to take c