itary preparedness . . . Should the primary cognizance reside in the Defense Department. a  Believing that the favorable relations previously enjoyed with NACA would continue, Department of Defense witnesses initially supported the administration’s space agency bill. Navy representatives, however, suggested the desirability of adding a military liaison committee to NASA similar to the committee that functioned with the AEC! Air Force Under Secretary MacIntyre stated his understanding that the measure intended that military activities in space would be the province of the Department of Defense; that civil space activities would be handled by NASA; and that "in the broad twilight zone of dual usefulness, the two agencies should operate in close mutual cooperation with each other, under overall executive direction, without domination of either over the other." nil When queried about this statement, however, the Bureau of the Budget did not agree with MacIntyre’s understanding. The bureau understood that  the space responsibility of the Department of Defense would include only those programs peculiar to or "primarily associated with weapons systems or military operations." All other space programs would be the responsibility of the civil space agency.... We recognize that there will probably be programs of military interest which are not, however, peculiarly or primarily military. The new agency would be responsible for those programs, but we expect that the Department of Defense would participate in their planning and implementation.  598  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 620 --- IMPACT OF MISSILES AND SPACE  Because of this new interpretation, ARPA director Johnson returned to the hearings of the House committee on 12 May to protest the restrictive language of the administration measure toward defense research and development in space. iB Both the House and Senate committees and then Congress noted and objected to the narrow field evidently intended for the milita