NS  deciding to go to war." But, in view of its global responsibilities, the Air Force was "a shoestring air force." If the Air Force were called upon to bomb across the Yalu, it could "destroy or lay waste to all of Manchuria and the principal cities of China." In so doing, however, the Air Force would undergo an attrition that, "with our start from approximately 40 groups, would fix it so that, should we have to operate in any other area with the full power of the United States Air Force we would not be able to." Because of the low rate of military aircraft procurement in the postwar years, the American aviation industry would be "unable until almost 1953 to do much of a job toward supplying the airplanes that we would lose in the war against any major opposition." For these reasons, Vandenberg urged that the Air Force could not sacrifice its deterrent capabilities for the sake of "pecking at the periphery" of communist power in Manchuria and China.  After outlining his reasons why the air war should not be expanded to Manchuria and China, Vandenberg laid out his view on the way in which an air war ought to be fought. "No successful operations on the surface," he said, "can be conducted until you get air superiority. And when you go against a hostile air force in order to gain that air superiority, you must first destroy the enemy air force at the place where he is most vulnerable, which is on the ground and in his nest. . . . If you don’t do that, your attrition mounts in arithmetical progression." After air superiority was attained, Vandenberg declared:  Air power . . . should go to the heart of the industrial centers to become reasonably efficient. . . . In my opinion, the proper way to use air power is initially to stop the flow of supplies and ammunition, guns, equipment of all types, at its source. The next most efficient way is to knock it out along the road before it reaches the front line. The least efficient way is after it gets dug in at the front line.