e number and effectiveness of air-to-air missiles, and the acquisition of an initial operational capability with Bomarc A missiles.” Rather than sacrifice funds required for the development of the Mach-3 interceptor, the Air Force elected to procure no additional manned interceptors in fiscal year 1960. Construction of BMEWS installations in Alaska and Greenland was funded. Work on the SAGE system was to continue, with some changes caused by new technology. The first SAGE installations had employed vacuum tubes and had been too large and bulky to be easily hardened, but the development of transistor electronic components permitted more compact and efficient installations. Early in 1959 the Air Force approved a plan to continue to develop the SAGE system around 10 supercombat centers, which were to be hardened, and 27 direction centers.  Although the Air Force was prepared to make some reductions in air defense requirements, it was not prepared for the full extent of the reductions that would be demanded during calendar year 1959. In its report on the fiscal year 1960  536  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 558 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  military construction bill, the Senate Armed Services Committee concluded that Nike systems were virtually obsolete and should not be funded; the House Armed Services Committee held that Nike was operational and less costly than Bomarc and recommended severely reduced appropriations for Bomarc. In the absence of military agreements on air defense requirements, Secretary McElroy’s civilian staff drew together the master air defense plan, which was officially issued on 19 June 1959. As has been seen, this master plan generally confirmed Air Force concepts of air defense requirements. However, it included a severe reduction in Air Force fighter-interceptor squadrons over the next several years; the reduction of Bomarc to atotal of 16 squadrons in the United States and two in Canada, all to be deployed in a peripheral setting rat