Albert P. Sights, Jr., concluded: "The crises in Lebanon and in the Taiwan Strait ... marked a turning point in relying on nuclear weapons for limited wars. Thereafter planners were more inclined to accept the premise that such crises — if they turned into wars — would be conventional, at least at the outset.  617  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 639 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Minimum Deterrence or Counterforce?  Speaking in support of the Department of Defense fiscal year 1960 budget in January 1959, Secretary McElroy accepted the Air Force position that the military forces which deter or win general wars would also be able to deter or to win small wars. "It is erroneous to view the US military posture," he said, "as containing a distinct general war capability per se. In reality, those capabilities which the United States has for a limited war are equally applicable to general war and those capabilities which the United States has for general war are, with a few exceptions, equally applicable to limited war."“°3 Tn this statement McElroy also indicated that the United States defense policy was not prepared to accept the concept of minimum deterrence, but the congressional budget hearings held early in 1959 were marked by a growing vocalization of the concept.  Initially held by a ground of diverse European intellectuals, the rationale of minimum deterrence was perhaps best summarized by Britain’s nuclear physicist-neutralist P. M. S. Blackett, who reasoned: "If it is, in fact, true, as most current opinion holds, that strategic airpower has abolished global war, then an urgent problem for the West is to assess how little effort must be put into it to keep global war abolished." The proposition of minimum deterrence was persuasive to many persons, including General Taylor, who in an unpublished article prepared in 1956, expressed the view that:  The avoidance of deliberate general atomic war should not be too difficult since its unrenumerative character mu