forts to provoke reluctant MiGs into air battles. Toward this end, General Clark offered a reward of $50,000 and political asylum on 26 April to any Communist pilot who would deliver his MiG to an airfield in South Korea. Possibly to avoid defections, the Soviets seem to have withdrawn their pilots from combat; the Chinese and Korean airmen who swarmed out of Manchuria proved pitifully incompetent. In May and June 1953 the Sabres shot down 133 MiGs at a cost of only one F-86,2 Finding special targets in North Korea became more difficult as the air pressure operations continued. However, as a standard fare, the bomber command attacked and destroyed 30 to 40 Red supply centers each month. In April 1953, moreover, air targets planners discovered that impounded irrigation water was the key to North Korea’s substantial rice production. On 13 and 16 May, United Nations fighter-bombers released swirling floodwaters as they cut irrigation dams at Toksan and Chasan. "The breaching of the Toksan dam," Clark informed the Joint Chiefs, "has been as effective as weeks of rail interdiction." The Communist forces also were subjected to attack, since Red personnel encampments and logistical dumps back of the front lines proved to be small but collectively profitable targets for air attack. ,  At the same time that he was willing to entertain stronger actions to attain an honorable truce, Eisenhower also took steps to renew truce negotiations. Following the new administration policy, the Joint Chiefs instructed Clark on 19 February to propose an immediate exchange of all sick and wounded prisoners of war. While the Reds were considering this proposal, the whole Communist bloc was shaken by the death of Joseph Stalin. At Stalin’s bier, Soviet premier Georgi Malenkov spoke of the need for peaceful coexistence between Communist and capitalist nations. On 28 March the Communists agreed to the repatriation of sick and wounded prisoners. But, when the Panmunjom talks began again on 26 Apr