dination of effort and thinking; for several years hence the Air University served as the Air Force’s doctrinal center. As the Air University commander, General Kenney had given strong support to doctrinal studies; both General Edwards, who became Air University commander on 1 August 1951, and Lt Gen Laurence S. Kuter, who took the position on 1 March 1953, continued this tradition. General Barker continued as Air University deputy commander until his retirement in August 1953. In October 1951 Maj Gen Roscoe C. Wilson became commandant of the Air War College, and Brig Gen Lloyd P. Hopwood brought a pervasive interest in doctrine into the Air Command and Staff College when he became its commandant on 18 June 1953. Marking the beginning of the augmentation of the Air War College Evaluation Staff, Colonel Momyer was named as its director on 16 June 1951.” Something of the new esprit of the Air University was manifest in a statement by Col James W. Chapman, the assistant chief of staff for plans and operations of the Air University on 22 June 1951. "I believe," Chapman recommended, "that the Air University should strive to become the brains of Headquarters USAF. It is the one place in the Air Force system in which unbiased, reflective thinking can be accomplished. The atmosphere which prevails in Headquarters USAF is not conducive to productivity which is based on realistic, honest evaluations and appraisals."  Even though the long-awaited JAAF publication had not been issued, General Barker’s appraisal of Air Force doctrinal requirements in the late spring of 1951 led him to believe that the Air University could not delay any longer in beginning to exercise its doctrinal mission. New thinking in the Air War College Evaluation Staff gave a fresh approach to the problem: the evaluation staff began preparing a basic doctrine brief and a series of other briefs on such subjects as tactical air operations and proposed that these documents be issued as Air University doctrine