obtained to outfit four heavy bomber and two heavy reconnaissance groups. Also in March the board recommended that B-47 production ought to be accelerated so that these medium jets eventually could replace the conventional B-29s and B-50s. In a meeting in May the board gave detailed consideration to Air Force fighters and transports. After study of all available fighters, the board agreed with the recommendation of Maj Gen Gordon P. Saville, head of the Air Defense Command, that the F-86 Sabre was the best interim air defense fighter that could be procured. The board earlier had recommended that the Air Force should purchase no more than service test quantities of light cargo aircraft, but in May it concluded that all transports procured ought to be designed to meet emergency and wartime military cargo airlift requirements of the Army and Air Force. The board recommended that the C-97 be continued in production until the Douglas C-124, which most closely met wartime cargo requirements and should become the standard heavy transport, could begin to reach units in May 1950. Although the board reduced most requirements for smaller troop carrier planes, it recommended continued production and procurement of C-119s, planes that were suited for airdrop and air-delivered transport functions.  A Collective Defense and Air Power Strategy  While military planning emphasized that budget ceilings necessitated redirections in strategy, President Truman apparently had begun to think seriously about collective security as early as the summer of 1948. In March 1948 the Western  245  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 267 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  European nations concluded the Brussels Pact pledging themselves to collective self-defense. The following July, Truman instructed Under Secretary of State Lovett to begin exploratory discussions looking toward the participation of the United States in a broadened Atlantic alliance. Agreements were reached on the general natu