organic close-support aviation, but the several joint evaluation  347  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 369 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  boards that met in the Far East Command during and at the end of the Korean hostilities generally endorsed the organizational concepts of extant Army-Air Force doctrine. A Joint Eighth Army-Fifth Air Force air-ground operations board, which reported on March 1951, found that "the Joint Training Directive for Air-Ground Operations. . . is sound and adequate and is applicable to the Korean theater of operations.“’’” In his study on air-ground operations issued in August 1952, General Clark held that any comparison between the Army-Air Force and Marine systems of close air support was faulty because the two systems were designed for completely different types of functions and had different allocations of forces.”° A conference of Fifth Air Force, Eighth Army, Seventh Fleet, and 1st Marine Aircraft Wing representatives that met in August 1953 for the war’s end review of air-ground operations stated: "Little attempt has been made... to reiterate previously published doctrines and techniques which have been found fundamentally sound and workable.'! "I don’t think we ought to be in tactical air support. I don’t know anybody at the top of the Army who is pressing for it," stated Under Secretary of the Army Earl D. Johnson in October 1953.78?  Although the Department of the Army did not seek to undertake its own close air support, it vastly expanded the Army’s organic aviation. According to a joint readjustment agreement of 20 May 1949, Army aviation was categorized as fixed-wing aircraft not exceeding 2,500 pounds in weight and rotary-wing aircraft (helicopters) weighing no more than 4,000 pounds. Such organic aircraft were to be used to expedite and improve ground combat procedures in forward areas of the battlefield. In addition to these planes, the Air Force would continue to provide liaison squadrons to support Army units