manual had emphasized the coequality of air and ground power. "Land power and air power," Griswold thought, "are not always interdependent forces. There are times when air power at least may be an independent force." At the time of Griswold’s recommendation, however, Maj Gen Muir S. Fairchild, the Air University commander, was reluctant to commit his personnel to a doctrinal problem until the new institution was firmly established. Maj Gen Charles C. Chauncey, deputy chief of the Air Staff, additionally feared that any revision of FM 100-20 might stir up a political controversy that could hinder the cause of armed service unification.’ Unlike the Air Force, the Navy moved boldly to provide a basic doctrine to its forces. In the closing months of World War II, it assembled a full-time panel of officers whose duties had involved combat command or  366  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 388 --- AF WRITES ITS DOCTRINE  important staff work and directed them to prepare a series of US fleet (USF) publications. The key manual in this series— USF-1, Principles and Instructions of Naval Warfare—went through many drafts within the panel, was circulated for comments from naval commanders, and was published on 1 May 1947 with the notation that it represented "the best service opinion and best knowledge that obtains in 1946."  With armed services unification assured by the National Security Act of 1947, Brig Gen Thomas S. Power, now deputy assistant chief of air staff for operations, directed the Air University to undertake its doctrinal responsibility without further delay. "There is a requirement for an Air Force publication of field manual scope," he wrote, "that will establish the doctrine and command of air power in the Armed Forces and define our policies and strategies. . . . It is visualized that this manual will be the top level Air Force document from which will be derived all other Air Force publications relative to air power and joint operations." Power directed t