ern Arms and Free Men, published in 1949, Bush pointed out that the German V-1 pilotless aircraft fired against London had been easily countered. "When the defense dispositions reached their climax," he wrote, "they brought down some ninety-five percent of the buzz-bombs that came within range, and they repeated or bettered this performance later at Antwerp." Flying slowly at constant altitude and in a straight line, the V-1 buzz bombs had made almost ideal targets. Based on these analyses, Bush urged that the manned bomber was far cheaper and superior to either a pilotless aircraft or a ballistic missile. He dismissed the ballistic missile quite summarily: "It would never stand the test of cost analysis. If we employed it in quantity, we would be economically exhausted long before the enemy." For the near future, Bush suggested that only small and short-range missiles would have practical application to air warfare.  Even though he gave strong support to the development of missiles during his tenure as deputy chief of staff for research and development of the Air Force, Gen Curtis E. LeMay was quite unwilling to admit that the heavy bomber lacked growth potential. "We in the Air Force," LeMay wrote in May 1946,  are assuming that guided missiles will be fired at bombing vehicles whatever their form may take and are already taking measures to develop and destroy enemy vehicles whether they are fighter planes or guided missiles. Granted as the science progresses, tactics will change, new weapons will be employed, but destruction of enemy industry and means to wage war calls for large quantities of destructive power. It may well be that in the future this power may be more efficiently delivered by rockets or guided missiles than by heavy bombers; however, it is not here yet and the science of strategic bombing and the development of bombing equipment will keep pace with the defensive missiles used to stop it. The heavy bomber will only go out of existence when a new w