A force of ground troops is a kind of composite power of ground elements and air elements which support them." If opposing ground armies have capabilities which "are at all even," Finletter postulated, "air superiority will decide the outcome, because the force which has air superiority will ultimately win. However, where there is such gross disproportion as there is and has been in Korea between the ground elements, tactical air superiority of its own cannot win the immediate battle."  In late July 1950, when United Nations ground forces were building a defensive perimeter around the port of Pusan in southern Korea, General MacArthur authorized United Nations Command air units to begin a comprehensive  296  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 318 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  interdiction campaign against the enemy’s overextended supply routes. In a six-week effort begun early in August, the B-29 groups easily smashed such war supporting industries as were to be found in North Korea. By 15 September, United Nations forces had been built up to a strength that they were required to attack northward from the Pusan defense perimeter. On that same day, an amphibious landing of a two-division force behind the enemy lines at Inchon was coordinated with the northward drive. "At this time," wrote Maj Gen Otto P. Weyland, who had come to Tokyo in July as vice-commander of the Far East Air Forces, "it became readily apparent that the air force had done its job well. The NKPA around the Pusan perimeter was nothing more than a skeleton which had been depleted by direct destruction and starved by the interdiction program." In three months of operations under conditions of virtual air supremacy, FEAF airmen were credited conservatively with having killed some 39,000 enemy personnel and with destroying 452 tanks, more than 6,000 vehicles, more than 1,300 freight cars, and some 260 locomotives. The number of hostile troops killed by air attack was surprisingly large: the 39,