nagement procedures. In developing the B-58 bomber and Matador missile, the Air Force had employed an existing company as the single prime contractor; but the committee stated unequivocally that no single contractor in the United States had sufficient across-the-board technical competence to manage a program to develop an intercontinental ballistic missile. The Air Force similarly did not have sufficient in-house capabilities to manage such a program. The von Neumann committee, therefore, proposed to establish a special management group by drafting highly competent people from universities, industry, and government.  Believing that the strategic necessity for the intercontinental ballistic missile was at least as urgent as the wartime development of the atomic bomb, Trevor Gardner worked diligently to get top-level support for such a missile. After a series of three meetings on the subject of the entire missile program, the Air Force Council recommended on 23 March 1954 that accuracy requirements be reduced for all missiles carrying thermonuclear warheads and that the Atlas program "be reoriented so as to achieve the early establishment of an optimum intercontinental ballistic missile system." General Twining approved the recommendations on the same day. On 14 May the Air Force further directed that developing the Atlas would be given its highest priority.” In an unusual management action the Air Research and Development Command established a Western Development Division under the command of Brig Gen Bernard A. Schriever at Inglewood, California, on 1 July. The primary mission of the Western Development Division  490  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 512 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  was to manage the development program for Air Force weapon system 107A (Project Atlas), including ground support for it, and to recommend operational, logistic, and personnel system concepts for the program. Since procurement and contracting for the Air Force was the mission of the Air Ma