for eight supercombat centers and 22 direction centers.~~ Seaborne extensions of the DEW line—picket ships and "Texas towers"— would be eliminated, but airborne control and warning aircraft would continue to function.“ On 14 January, the same day that the new Secretary of Defense Thomas S. Gates, Jr., and General Twining appeared before the Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations to defend the budget, Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev announced that the Soviet Union would depend on ballistic missiles and was stopping development of manned bombers. While  *Massachusetts Institute of Technology Research Corporation.  538  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 560 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  skeptical of the Soviet announcement, Gates and Twining agreed that air defense requirements ought to be kept under study. "Maybe the Russians will eliminate their air threat completely," Twining remarked. "We do not know. We certainly ought to keep watching this and not spend money on air defense unnecessarily."  In January 1960 Secretary Gates and General Twining were willing to stand behind the fiscal year 1961 air defense program. However, following the completion of the Estes study group’s work, General White appeared before the Subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations on 24 March to submit a reappraisal of air defense programs. Since study had shown that the planned degree of hardening would be expensive yet inadequate to protect the supercombat SAGE centers fully, White desired to eliminate the eight supercombat centers and 22 direction centers. On the best scientific advice he could get, White believed that Bomarc A and B would work; nevertheless, he proposed to cut Bomarc procurement off with the 10 squadrons that were already funded. These squadrons would be deployed to defend the industrial area of the northeastern United States and southeastern Canada — eight squadrons would be sited in the United States and two in Canada. These reductions w