rough the General Staff to the White House appears in doubt.  But President Roosevelt had his own sources of information and he was going to make decisions independently of the recommendations of the War Department. For instance, in a confidential letter dated 11 July 1938, Ambassador Hugh Wilson in Berlin was emphatic in his discussion of the German air potential either for war or political blackmail. Likewise, in a long conversation with Roosevelt on 13 October, William C. Bullitt, the ambassador to France, brought out the belief of the French military chiefs that Hitler’s power rested upon an already large air force that could be expanded rapidly. Both the British and French wanted the United States to increase aircraft production drastically in order that they could buy planes to build up aerial fleets that would either overawe Hitler or, if war came, could help to defeat the Axis without American armed intervention.  At a meeting of civilian and military leaders at his White House office on 14 November 1938, President Roosevelt issued instructions that General Arnold later described as the Magna Carta of the Air Force. Roosevelt announced that airplanes — not ground forces—were the implements of war that would influence Hitler’s actions. In view of the air orders of battle of the Axis nations, he continued, the United States had to prepare itself to resist assault on the Western Hemisphere "from the North to the South Pole." Roosevelt’s desired objective was an Army air force of 20,000 planes and an annual productive capacity of 24,000 aircraft, but he did not think that Congress would approve more than 10,000 planes—2,500 trainers, 3,750 combat line, and 3,750 combat reserve—and this became the objective. Roosevelt’s plan also called for the construction of seven government-financed aircraft plants, two of which would be put into operation, the remainder to be temporarily in reserve.'”” President Roosevelt’s announcement that he would present an Air Corps expa