ished the extent to which they will replace or supplement manned aircraft units may be considered."! In spite of this decision, the Air Force did not form operational concepts for missiles until 1952, nearly seven years after the technical projects had been established. Issued on 18 September 1952, the Air Force policy letter on guided missiles declared:  Concepts concerning the organization of pilotless aircraft units, their logistic support, and their tactical operation are being developed that basically adhere to existing concepts for Air Force operations. In short, it has become clear that the Air Force will incorporate pilotless aircraft into its organization with only slightly more readjustment than is necessary when new models of more conventional aircraft types are made available to its flying units.  The thought that missiles had different characteristics from aircraft matured rather slowly. By 15 August 1955 the Air Force was willing to state a stronger policy that recognized that "guided missiles are weapons with special qualities." "Manned aircraft techniques," noted the new Air Force policy statement, "have, of necessity, been the basis in the past for most of the development practices and planning for use of missiles. Reluctance to depart from such development practices and planning procedures may prevent maximum progress." This policy still contemplated that a limited number of missile units would be formed by appropriate commands to provide operational data, but this action would have to be initiated during the research and development program. Plans for integrating missile units into the combat inventory, moreover, would have to be made even before operational data on the capabilities of the missiles was complete. wg Apparently since little thought had been given to the conceptual problem earlier, the Air Force found itself in need of answers to many questions about missiles in 1956. Asked deputy assistant for programming Col Jack N. Donohew in Dece