s carrier- and water-based air and the Marine Corps. While Congress prepared for hearings, Truman established the National Intelligence Authority by executive order on 22 January 1946. In his judgment, all of the services had agreed that there was a need for the coordination of foreign intelligence activities.  During 1946 lengthy hearings before congressional committees and numerous Army-Navy conferences enabled the services to develop their respective positions and determine what Congress was likely to approve in the way of armed service reorganization. Speaking with candor, Adm Richmond K. Turner stated the Navy’s opposition to unification: "Because the Navy has had and should retain in the future its position as the first line of military security for the United States, I believe the Navy will never willingly agree to a consolidation of national military forces in any manner that will silence the Navy’s voice in military affairs or materially restrict its present responsibilities." Gen Alexander A. Vandegrift, commandant of the Marine Corps, feared that "the single Secretary for Common Defense and the all-powerful National Chief of Staff are entirely free either to abolish the Marine Corps outright or to divest it of all its vital functions." Adm John H. Towers bluntly charged that the new air force meant to take over naval aviation, saying in part: "I fear —and I have good reason to fear—that the Army Air Force advocates of a separate air force have well established in mind the plan, upon realization of a separate service, to absorb naval aviation. . .. Approximately 40 percent of our postwar Navy is aviation. Its loss would be completely disastrous to the Navy." On  193  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 215 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  15 May 1946, Sen David I. Walsh and Rep Carl Vinson informed Secretary Forrestal that Congress was not likely to approve the creation of one department of defense under the administration of a single secretary, the