ant lecturers or consultants.” The final Air Staff directive that had established the Post-Graduate Study Group on 26 June 1952 had authorized the Air University to retain a few graduates from each Air War College  396  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 418 --- AF WRITES ITS DOCTRINE  class for an additional two years of advanced military study. Instituted on 21 July 1952 under the direction of Dr Eugene M. Emme, the Graduate Study Group included only three officers, who, after introductory seminars on research techniques, launched into major research topics of their own selection. After a year’s residency, Col E. B. Miller, Jr.,— whose research report, "Guided Missiles and Pilotless Aircraft in Theater Air Operations," attracted attention in the Air Staff—became the group’s first graduate in June 1953. At this time, additional officers were assigned from the graduating Air War College class.118  As an instructor in the Air War College, Col Raymond S. Sleeper had become convinced that "the objective of air power is not to destroy the enemy people, not to destroy the enemy cities if it can be avoided, not to produce panic, not to destroy morale, but ‘to change the temper’ of the enemy, or, specifically, to produce behavior in the opposing government that is acceptable to us." In an article published in the winter of 1951-52 Sleeper suggested that a further study of the British experience in the use of the persuasive effect and pressure of air power to quell revolts in Iraq and Aden during the 1920s might have applicability to the cold war.!!? General Wilson nominally assigned Sleeper to the Graduate Study Group in August 1953 in order that he might test his thesis. Borrowing Air University professional civilians and securing selected students from the Air Command and Staff College, Sleeper organized and directed Project Control, which sought to determine whether the Royal Air Force techniques might have been used to advantage by the United States so as to have aff