te the necessity for a subsequent ground invasion, whereas AWPD-42 looked toward the establishment of an air ascendancy necessary to subsequent surface operations. The strategic targets suggested in AWPD-1 much more closely approximated the findings of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey as to what the optimum target system for the destruction of Germany’s industrial life would have been than did either AWPD-42 or the attack program that, under orders from higher authority, was actually implemented.  Under directives from the Combined Chiefs of Staff, the Eighth Air Force was required to direct much of its effort against other targets. But these attacks generally failed to weaken the German war effort. Because of heavy Allied ship losses in the battle of the Atlantic, the Casablanca directive of January 1943 required the strategic bombers to give first priority to attacks against German submarine bases and construction yards. Although tons of bombs were dropped on the heavily fortified submarine pens, those bombing raids did little to diminish the German submarine offensive. The ultimate solution for the German submarine menace, after May 1943, proved to be their detection and destruction at sea.  Lacking sufficient force to destroy decisive target systems, General Eaker attempted to discover a "long-chance objective" whose destruction would produce results greatly out of proportion to the effort involved. In Washington on 8 March 1943, General Arnold’s Committee of Operations Analysts recommended that the destruction of three ball-bearing plants at Schweinfurt would eliminate 43 percent of a most essential ingredient to the Axis war effort. The committee concluded that "on the basis of American experience, as well as in the opinion of responsible authorities in the United Kingdom, ball bearings represent a potential bottleneck in German industry, particularly in the manufacture of war material." t Although about 12,000 tons of bombs were dropped on the ball-