eadquarters air force be established outside of Washington to supervise the training and operations of combat air units, that an Air Corps board be created to formulate uniform tactical doctrines, and that a model Air Corps unit be created at the Air Corps Tactical School for employment in tactical testing and experimentation. The board recognized that the Air Corps had a requirement for 2,320 airplanes, but it proposed that any Air Corps expansion ought to be a part of a comprehensive Army augmentation plan.?  Of the several members of the Baker board—including General Foulois and Edgar S. Gorrell—only James H. Doolittle filed a minority report. "I believe," stated Doolittle, "that the future security of our Nation is dependent upon an adequate air force. This is true at the present time and will become increasingly important as the science of aviation advances and the airplane lends itself more and more to the Art of Warfare." Doolittle insisted that the air force could be most rapidly developed if it were separated from the Army. If this were impossible, the Air Corps should have a separate budget and promotion list and should be removed from the control of the General Staff.* There is no indication that these remarks by Doolittle, an experienced Army aviator who had resigned from the service to take an engineering job with the Shell Oil Company, were ever considered by the secretary of war. In fact, Secretary Dern, who was in Panama when the Baker board completed its report, immediately messaged Baker that he had "no hesitancy in approving in principle your conclusions."  In June 1934 President Roosevelt created the Federal Aviation Commission under the chairmanship of newspaper editor Clark Howell to make recommendations concerning all phases of aviation. When the commission began its hearings, Secretary Dern informed it that the War Department endorsed the report of the Baker board. Brig Gen C. E. Kilbourne, assistant chief of staff, War Plans Division, moreov