nt would be an economically unsound and basically unwise practice. Davis admitted that the nation’s aircraft industry had been starving and that the amount of equipment in the Air Service was inadequate, but_these situations were caused by the scarcity of funds appropriated by Congress.!*4 Maj Gen John L. Hines, who had succeeded Pershing as chief of staff on 14 September 1924, stated that the combat readiness of the Air Service should perhaps excel that of the other branches of the Army, but he could see no reason for a separate air service or a separate air corps within the Army. "I am of the opinion," he said, "that  47  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 69 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  the Air Service, because of the limitations imposed by natural laws on the operation of aircraft as well as the necessity for unity of action, will always be an auxiliary arm or service. It can never by itself defeat an enemy." The principal Air Service opponent before both the Lampert committee and the Morrow board was General Drum, now the assistant chief of staff for operations on the War Department General Staff. In the Lampert hearings, Drum argued that the United States had little to fear from hostile air attack because of the inherent range limitations on land-based aircraft and the tonnage restrictions that had been placed on the construction of aircraft carriers by the Washington treaty of 1922. 36 Both in his initial statement and in his rebuttal testimony before the Morrow board, Drum insisted that "the air power principle and its application as recently proposed by the Chief of Air Service . . . is unsound from a national defense viewpoint, as well as from purely Army considerations. At the present and so far as the future of aviation can be foreseen, air power has no function independent of the Army and Navy." Possibly one of his most. telling points—and Drum repeated it several times — was the opinion of the august General Pershing. "The Infantry," Pershi