ense Establishment. This agency should have full authority to take advantage of scientific breakthroughs without approval or concurrence of the military services. . .. As soon as one of the military services establishes an approved requirement for any weapon under development, appropriate arrangements should be made to transfer responsibility for the production of that weapon to the service. Thus, the military services should be considered as customers of this agency.  Apparently giving some weight to recommendations such as these, the Senate Preparedness Investigating Subcommittee recommended on 23 January 1958 that decisive action should be taken to "reorganize the structure of the Defense Establishment" and to "accelerate and expand research and development programs, provide funding on a long-term basis, and improve control and administration within the Department of Defense or through the establishment of an independent agency."  Drives for Closer Defense Unification  Since the days of William Mitchell and Mason Patrick, Air Force leaders had traditionally favored closer unification of the armed services; hence, early in 1956 when the Soviet Union appeared to be making greater technological progress than the United States, the Air Force opened a campaign aiming toward a new reorganization of the Department of Defense. In a lecture delivered at the National War College in May 1956, Gen Nathan F. Twining, Air Force chief of staff, stated that the matter of organizing defense and using new weapons most effectively was of equal importance with the technological race. "Even today," he pointed out, "our weapons are far ahead of our doctrines and concepts for using them... . The real race with the Soviets is to achieve the best doctrines, the best strategy and tactics with new weapons." Twining warned that each service was attempting to attain  574  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 596 --- IMPACT OF MISSILES AND SPACE  "service self-sufficiency," whereas most tasks