er than unification of the armed services. To coordinate national security efforts, the act established the National Security Council, which would advise the president on the integration of domestic, foreign, and military policies. The Central Intelligence Agency, which superseded all national intelligence authority, would coordinate all governmental intelligence activities and report to the National Security Council. The National Security Resources Board was established to advise the president concerning the coordination of military, industrial, and civilian mobilization problems. Within the National Military Establishment, the secretary of defense was authorized to establish general policies and programs, exercise general direction, take steps to eliminate duplication, and to supervise and coordinate the budget estimates of the departments of Army, Navy, and Air Force. Each service secretary, however, was accorded direct access to the president and to the director of the budget. The law also provided that each department should be administered as an individual executive department. With its membership to comprise the chiefs of staff of the Army and the Air Force, the chief of naval operations, and the chief of staff to the president, the Joint Chiefs of Staff were provided a joint staff of not more than 100 officers and was charged principally "to prepare strategic plans and to provide for the strategic direction of the military forces." The act also provided for the organization of a Munitions Board and a Research and Development Board within the National Defense Establishment.!®  On the same day that he signed the National Security Act of 1947, President Truman nominated James Forrestal as the first secretary of defense and issued an executive order prescribing the functions of the several armed forces. Guarantees for the unchanged status of the Marine Corps and for land-based naval aviation already had been added to the basic law. But Truman’s executive order c