mate’ or ‘stand-off is more of a psychological than a real deterrent. At best it is a cliche born of the natural tendency to rationalize away the prospects of total atomic war."  That any effective nuclear stalemate would depend upon the psychological judgments of Soviet leaders and to a lesser extent of the Soviet people was a cause for concern to Air Force leaders. Gen Carl A. Spaatz agreed that no right-thinking person would initiate a nuclear war, but he added: "I do not agree that dictators are in their right mind. I am certain Hitler was not, soI do not think we can assume that the Russians are going to have .. . completely sensible people running them all the time."!*” This same concern for Soviet motivations and capabilities caused General Twining to describe the proposition that prospects of mutual suicide had abolished total war as "a dangerous fallacy.""We must recognize," he said, "the fact that total war is no less a potential threat today, when both sides possess atomic weapons, than it was several years ago when we alone had them."! 8 In the spring of 1960, after becoming Air Force chief of staff, General White described deterrence as "what we hope to achieve through specific impact on the collective mind of the Soviet leadership.""“” White took "particular exception" to the notion of "mutual deterrence." "I cannot agree," he said, "that the Soviet Union is trying to deter us. Deterrence, as I see it, is a one-sided problem —it is ours." Reasoning that no one could state what amount of destruction the Soviets or Chinese Communists would be willing to accept, that the Soviets had a tremendous advantage in their ability to make a first strike, and that technological change made for very rapid fluctuations in offensive and defensive capabilities, Gen Thomas S. Power, the new commander of the Strategic Air Command, added: "a tremendous  446  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 468 --- STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS  disservice . . . is rendered the American peop