ed, "and carry it to the enemy, and the only way to carry it is on board something that will float—on board a ship, in other words."!”” "I believe," testified Lt Ralph A. Ofstie of the Navy Bureau of Aeronautics, "that air power does not exist, absolutely; that it exists only in conjunction with other forces which can cooperate with it or which can transport it." Leading the Navy witnesses before the Morrow board, Secretary Wilbur stated that the mission of the naval air force was to serve as an arm of the fleet. "Its mission is to aid the surface units in gaining and maintaining command of the sea. It may best carry out this mission by gaining and maintaining control of the air in the theater of naval operations." 1 Admiral Moffett saw no difficulty in maintaining coordination for coastal defense through the agency of the Joint Army and Navy Board and he regarded the "Joint Army and Navy Action in Coast Defense" agreement to be a clear definition of aerial responsibilities. 1°? The Navy also held to the official position that the establishment of a central procurement agency for military aircraft was undesirable. "There is very little duplication of effort on the part of the services and such duplication as exists is not only justifiable but, I believe," noted Admiral Moffett, "decidedly necessary, in order that there may be competition, that there may be rivalry, that there may be initiative; otherwise there is bound to be stagnation."  The high-ranking Army officials appearing before the Morrow board also opposed changes in the Air Service. Secretary of War Dwight F. Davis stated that the War Department was "convinced that a strong airplane industry is vital to the national defense." However, he asserted that the subordination of civil aviation to a military department would be an economically unsound and basically unwise practice. Davis admitted that the nation’s aircraft industry had been starving and that the amount of equipment in the Air Service was inadequa