military staff conferences began in Washington on 29 January 1941 with the purpose of laying down principles of cooperation "should the United States be compelled to resort to war." The three aviation experts at the conference were Air Vice-Marshal John C. Slessor of the Royal Air Force, Col J.T. McNarney (an Air Corps officer assigned to the War Plans Division), and Capt DeWitt C. Ramsey of the Navy. On 27 March the military experts formally approved a document subsequently cited as American-British Conversations-1 (more usually ABC-1), which visualized a basic Anglo-American war plan and a summary of strategic policies. Since Germany was the most powerful Axis partner, the main Allied effort would be conducted in the European theater. The United States was to depend largely upon its Pacific Fleet to maintain a defensive against Japan in the Far East. The Allied offensive in Europe was to include economic pressure through blockade, a sustained air offensive against German military power, early defeat of Italy, and the buildup of forces for an eventual land offensive against Germany. As rapidly as possible, the Allies were to achieve "superiority of air strength over that of the enemy, particularly in long-range striking forces." On the basis of ABC-1, the Joint Planning Committee rapidly completed war plan Rainbow S, and the secretary of war and the secretary of the Navy approved both ABC-1 and Rainbow 5 and sent them to President Roosevelt on 2 June 1941. The  108  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 130 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  president indicated his satisfaction with the plans, which he said should be returned for his formal approval in case of war.1®  To provide some realistic guidance to the Office of Production Management (which had superseded the National Defense Advisory Commission), President Roosevelt requested the secretary of war and the secretary of the Navy on 9 July 1941 to explore "the over-all production requirements required to defeat our pote