xibility in its operations in Northwest Africa. In February 1943 the XII Air Support Command failed to give good results when it was attached to the US II Corps for the support ofits operations in Tunisia. While the Americans sought new ideas, Gen Bernard L. Montgomery, commander of the British Eighth Army, in January 1943, issued a small pamphlet entitled "Some Notes on High Command in War," which described his experience in war. As a result of his experience of cooperating with the British Western Desert Air Force, Montgomery emphasized that the greatest asset of air power was its flexibility. He maintained that this flexibility could be realized only when air power was controlled centrally by an air officer who maintained a close association with the ground commander. "Nothing could be more fatal to successful results," Montgomery wrote, "than to dissipate the air resources into small packets placed under command of army formation commanders, with each packet working on its own plan." In February 1943 in North Africa, Maj Gen Carl Spaatz organized the Northwest Africa Allied Air Force and gave it command over a strategic, a coastal, and a tactical air force. In a letter to Arnold dated 7 March 1943, Spaatz emphasized that "the air battle must be won first. ... Air units must be centralized and cannot be divided into small packets among several armies or corps. ... When the battle situation requires it, all units, including medium and heavy bombardment must support ground operations."  In the United States, General Marshall and other influential Army officers accepted General Montgomery's basic principles relative to the control of air power.” Air Force leaders liked Montgomery’s basic thinking, but there was some feeling that the air striking force ought not to be divided into a strategic and a tactical air force. As assistant chief of air staff for plans, Brig Gen Orvil Anderson urged that offensive air power ought not to be divided, and he maintained that the s