etation was going to be that bombers required fighter escort to operate safely and effectively. Brig Gen Orvil Anderson, however, would point out that attaining Allied air superiority over Europe was in no small part attributable to mistakes made by Hermann Goering. For one thing, the German fighters never attempted significant morning attacks over Great Britain when the American bombers were taking off and laboriously forming up for missions and would have been most vulnerable. For another, the German fighters could have met the P-47s and P-51s near the channel coast and forced them to drop their wing tanks, thus making it impossible for the Americans to continue their missions. Instead, the German fighters preferred to meet the American formations deep within Germany, usually over the bomber target. In Anderson’s opinion, Goering made his greatest mistake at the end of December 1943 when he ordered his fighter pilots to avoid Allied fighters and concentrate their attack on the bombers. This order ignored the basic fact of air fighting that when aircraft of roughly equal performance meet, the one that seeks to avoid combat is automatically at an almost certainly fatal disadvantage. After some argument, Anderson was able to persuade Maj Gen James H. Doolittle to issue orders on 4 January for the Eighth Air Force fighters to take the offensive —"to pursue the Hun until he was destroyed"—rather than to continue to provide position defense to friendly bombers. Goering’s mistake and the Eighth Air Force’s quick recognition of his error helped assure the attainment of Allied air superiority.  A close reading of Air Force correspondence of the Schweinfurt-Regensburg time period reveals a confidence that although strategic bombers, employed in force, could perform their missions over Germany even without air superiority, most planners and commanders acknowledged that an early attainment of Allied control of the air was necessary if the surface invasions of Europe were to s