action. The Air Staff coordinated the revision and on 1 December 1959 General White signed a new printing of AFM 1-2. The new printing substituted the term aerospace in each instance where the word air had appeared in the earlier editions, but made virtually no other changes in the old manual, Aerospace was defined as an "operationally indivisible medium consisting of the total expanse beyond the earth’s surface." In explaining why the new manual was issued, General White wrote: "The predominant characteristics of air forces (now aerospace forces) have changed only in degree. Range, mobility, flexibility, speed, penetration capability and firepower delivery —the characteristics that continue to make aerospace forces unique among military  10  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 32 --- EMERGING PATTERNS forces— must be developed to the maximum to guarantee national security."©” General LeMay, White’s successor as chief of staff, also appeared to be happy with the old presentation of air doctrine. In an address on 21 September 1959, he told his audience that Air Force concepts and doctrine had not changed through the years, at least since the establishment of General Headquarters Air Force in 1935. "The purpose of aerospace power," LeMay said, "is to deter attack against us and, if we are attacked, to destroy the enemy’s means to wage war." Since there seemed to be some misunderstanding about what the Air Force stood for, General LeMay called for more attention to air concepts and doctrine. New means were soon mobilized to spread Air Force thinking. The Aerospace Policy Division provided "positions" on subjects of defense interest, many of which began to appear as speeches and statements of air leaders. The Secretary of Air Force, Office of Information, already published the Air Force Information Policy Letter for Commanders and the monthly Supplement to the Information Policy Letter for Commanders. In September 1961, the secretary specified that the Air Forc