al beliefs demand some explanation. "Air activities have most often attracted men of active rather than literary leanings. . .. The Air Force has never boasted a high percentage of scholars," as Col Noel F. Parrish observed in 1947.” In fact this spate of writings by senior commanders led W. Barton Leach to describe the Air Force  as "the Silent Service."!° But this line of endeavor has not always received a oyingthefs hearing in the air arm. "As you know," wrote General Barker in reference to the provocative article regarding the Air Force’s need to develop a Mahan, "the scholarly life is not particularly respected in the profession of arms." And he continued,  I don’t believe, however, that we can ever detail an officer to do a work of this sort. Mahan, as with all great thinkers, was inspired. Of course he had to spring from an environment which allowed him to study long and deeply the problems of sea power. His many years on shipboard were devoted to these exhaustive studies —but he would have been playing poker . . . and reading fiction if he hadn’t been inspired to learn all he could of naval history and give it pattern and meaning.  Other factors worked against the expression of fundamental Air Force beliefs. Prior to World War II the subordinate position of the Air Force to the Army is said to have hampered air publications, as did the fact that the Army’s system of field manuals was unsuited to the need of the Air Force. Moreover, some Air Force leaders felt that because of the lessons learned in World War II, the Air Force should not try to develop a doctrine based just on air power. Maj Gen Follett Bradley opined that  we do not need a Mahan of air power so much as an oracle of combined operations — triphibious, if you like. The true expositor of military things to come must . .. know thoroughly the changes in sea power as taught by Mahan, and in land warfare as taught by Clausewitz, which have been wrought not only by new weapons but by air power itself.