dministrative policy favored the establishment of international controls to secure a peaceful regime in space, General Schriever forcefully asserted in an address at San Diego in February 1957 that the United States ought to move ahead and establish space superiority. "In the long haul," he maintained, "our safety as a nation may depend upon our achieving ‘space superiority.’ Several decades from now the important battles may not be sea battles or air battles, but space battles, and we should be spending a certain fraction  549  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 571 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  of our national resources to insure that we do not lag in obtaining space superiority." ° On the day following this address, Schriever discovered that "space’ was a nasty word" since, he recalled, he received instructions forbidding him to use the word space in any of his speeches. General Power, commander of the Air Research and Development Command, also learned that it was "inappropriate" for an officer in a responsible position to speak on the military potential of space. ol  Breaking the silence on space matters in the aftermath of Sputnik, General White defined the Air Force’s perspective at what he described as the "dawn of the space age" in an address to the National Press Club on 29 November 1957. "Whoever has the capability to control the air," he said,  is in a position to exert control over the land and seas beneath. I feel that in the future whoever has the capability to control space will likewise possess the capability to exert control of the surface of the earth. ... We airmen who have fought to assure that the United States has the capability to control the air are determined that the United States must win the capability to control space. In speaking of the control of air and the control of space, I want to stress that there is no division, per se, between air and space. Air and space are an indivisible field of operations. ... It is quite obviou