f a mobile tactical air force as a deterrent to local wars, Tactical Air Command officers believed that an Air War College Graduate Study Group thesis by Col Richard P. Klocko entitled "Air Power in Limited Military Actions" may well have influenced the Air Staffs ultimate acceptance of the new concept. Completed in August 1954, Klocko’s thesis was said to have served "as a sort of a tactical air ‘bible’ at Headquarters USAF." In his study Klocko assumed that in a period of atomic equilibrium the deterrent effect of atomic power would apply to both opposing coalitions and that the world would be faced with a series of limited military actions. He defined these actions as "any employment of military forces which fall short of launching the nuclear atomic air retaliation against the USSR." He believed that the New Look had failed in Indochina as a result of political default rather than flaws in military capabilities or concepts. In Indochina the United States had announced in advance that the conflict might be extended, and this "ultimatum" had caused world opinion to fear worldwide nuclear war. A better course of action would have been to have presented the Reds with afait accompli. "The United States," he urged on the basis of this thinking, "should consistently and ardently advocate that the massive retaliatory power policy in general terms and the intent to use it if necessary should be internationally understood as a deterrent to limited aggressions and to general use. In any specific situation, however, the time, the place, and the means of applying this power should never be suggested or announced until the actual operation reveals them."  Given the maintenance of massive retaliatory power and the condition of atomic equilibrium, Klocko urged that the United States seek to develop political and military stability in free world countries around the Communist perimeter. Since the Soviet Union was the only air adversary who could seriously threaten free world aer