armies, corps, and divisions. But General Patrick took exception with the Foulois board’s insisting that the prime function of the Air Service was to obtain and transmit information, that the prime function of pursuit was to prevent enemy observation and protect friendly observation planes, and that aircraft intended for bombing distant objectives or industrial centers were a "luxury." "It follows," Patrick wrote, "that when it is possible to place such a bombing force in the field, its size should be limited only by the nation’s ability to provide it and by the number and importance of the enemy activities which are to be attacked."  The Dickman board’s report noted that the Air Service, AEF, had developed along four general lines: observation, distant reconnaissance and bombing operations, aerial combat, and combat against ground troops. The board stated that air combat against ground troops was not well developed and predicted that this type of aerial work could be made more effective and decisive than distant bombing operations. The Dickman board concluded,  28  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 50 --- THROUGH WORLD WARI  Nothing so far brought out in the war, shows that aerial activities can be carried on independently of ground troops, to such an extent as to materially affect the conduct of the war as a whole. It is possible, perhaps, that future wars may develop aerial forces of far greater extent than those provided in this war. It is safe to assume that Air Forces will not be developed for war purposes to such an extent as to largely supplant ground and water forces, until such a proportion of the people become airfaring people as are now known as seafaring people.  The board added that "so long as present conditions prevail . . . aviation must continue to be one of the auxiliaries of the principal arm, the Infantry."°  Other reports, manuals, and histories prepared at the Headquarters Air Service, AEF, in Paris and elsewhere in Europe during th