et, Wilson worked closely with the National Security Council in an effort to reduce military expenditures. As a preliminary measure in February 1953, he ordered a temporary halt to all new military construction and to that which had just gotten started pending verification of need for each project. Further study showed that the Army and Navy had about reached their programmed strength levels, but the Air Force’s need for new money reflected amounts necessary to move upward to the 143-wing level. Even without this new authority, the Air Force was expected to carry $28.5 billion in unexpended funds over into fiscal year 1954. Wilson regarded some carry-over funds as being inevitable in any build-up program, but production should have begun to catch up with authorizations. He was additionally critical of the emphasis given to expansion of the mobilization base of the defense industry and pointed out that much of this industrial base would have to be liquidated after the Air Force reached its programmed strength, provided no war had occurred. "If I had been doing it the last 3 years," Wilson observed, "I would have built more production and less mobilization base to begin with." One immediate way in which the government could reduce new money requirements would be to abandon preparations for a maximum year of danger. In April 1953 Eisenhower approved a new policy that the United States should not attempt to meet a major aggression by any particular date but should "get... ready  421  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 443 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  and stay geady." Eisenhower described the new policy as being that of "a floating D-day."  Although the incumbent Joint Chiefs of Staff, headed by General Bradley, were not asked for advice on proposed force changes, Gen Hoyt S. Vandenberg formally protested Air Force reductions to the new Secretary of the Air Force Harold E. Talbott. On 7 and 8 May the Joint Chiefs warned Wilson that "any government decision to