dy entitled "Control of the Use of Outer Space." Schofield pointed out that the "use of an earth satellite as a reconnaissance vehicle would provide intelligence data of the highest order of coverage and reliability." Satellites that could fire missiles from orbital positions could also be developed, and such an airborne ICBM would be extremely hard to defend against since speed, time, and direction of approach would be in favor of the offensive weapon. Although missile-firing satellites appeared feasible, Schofield recommended the establishment of international controls over space. "The presence of a variety of devastating military forces, of many sovereign states, constantly deployed throughout international space," he noted, "may not be conducive to peaceful living. . . . It might be more sound for the United States, because it may have an early advantage in the exploration of space, to use its position of influence to the  548  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 570 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  best advantage by strongly advocating a form of international control over the use of space.""4  In his State of the Union message delivered to Congress on 10 January 1957, President Eisenhower renewed his proposal for the open skies inspection system and additionally called for the establishment of international control over space. "We are willing," he said, "to enter any reliable agreement which would... mutually control the outer space missile and satellite development."?> Four days later Henry Cabot Lodge, US ambassador to the United Nations, presented a more detailed version of space control to the General Assembly. Speaking on 25 July 1957, Stassen reiterated the need to establish control over experimentation with objects traveling through outer space. He warned that the situation was perilously close to that of 1945-46 when the Soviets rejected Bernard Baruch’s plan for the control of atomic weapons, an action that had led to an international nuclear arms race. He hop