or if the missile should be dropped from development. Compared with other missiles, however, the Matador was essentially simple. It was, in effect, a subsonic, pilotless fighter aircraft that was guided to its target by a ground-based, short-range (shoran) bombing system. The Air Force eventually decided to build the Matador (TM-61) because it would give all-weather interdiction capabilities to a tactical air force. The Matador first flew in 1950. The Air Force deployed it overseas beginning in 1954 to stations in Germany, Taiwan, and Korea.?  Other Air Force missile systems were far more complex than Matador. Most of them were scheduled to become operational in the 1954-55 time period, but each  484  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 506 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  of them pressed beyond existing parameters of the technological arts. Basically a pilotless aircraft that would be carried under the fuselage of a B-36 or a B-47, the Rascal (SM-63) was designed as a Mach-2 missile with a 100-mile range. It was designed so that a missilier in the bomber could control the missile from the time of launch until it hit its target. The Snark (SM-62) resembled a big sleek fighter plane. A turbojet engine gave the Snark a Mach-0.9 airspeed and range that was specified to be 5,500 miles; a gyrostabilized celestial navigation system guided the Snark to its target once in flight. The Bomarc (IM-99) was a pilotless fighter that would be launched with a liquid-fuel rocket booster and whose twin ramjet engines would give it an airspeed of Mach 2.7. Missile control officers used a ground radar control system to maneuver the Bomarc into an attack position, at which time its radar would lock onto the target. The Air Force did not expect the Navaho (SM-64) to be operational at an early date. This missile was designed to carry a heavy nuclear warhead (subsequently determined to be a thermonuclear warhead) and was to have a 5,500-mile range and a supersonic speed of Mach 2.7. The navigation