es C. Freund concluded that "the budget-first approach to national security emerged as the real culprit on the scene." But he also pointed out that the controversy conclusively demonstrated that unification had not solved all defense problems, that military problems were becoming increasingly dependent on technological judgments, that Congress was unprepared to formulate or pass judgment on strategic and technological issues of defense, and that the military leaders had proven unable to arrive at unanimous decisions on weapons and strategy.  Speaking shortly after the interservice row of 1949 had taken place, Maj Gen John A. Samford, the Air Force director of intelligence, pointed out that the armed forces leaders had been unable to agree on the art of warfare. "Since it has been  258  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 280 --- AF IN NATIONAL DEFENSE  stated that military men are unable to reach any fundamental agreement on the art of war," he predicted, ' 'it seems very probable that civilian thought will go to work to help them." °5 This prediction would prove to be correct. The strategic bombing controversy had two other important effects. For anumber of years after 1949, the Joint Chiefs of Staff accepted a practice of stating quantitative requirements for military forces and of leaving qualitative requirements to the providing service. For example, the Joint Chiefs determined the number of aircraft carriers or heavy bombardment groups that would be required to implement strategic plans, but they would not determine the size or the types of carriers or the kinds of bombers that would be provided.? © The hearings also demonstrated that the Air Force had not given enough realistic thought to the problem of targeting nuclear weapons. This matter would receive serious attention within the year that followed the investigations.  NOTES  1. Quoted in R. Earl McClendon, Autonomy of the Air Arm (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Research Studies Institute, 1954), 133.  2. Gen Henry H