e Navy. Likewise statements of military doctrine by the other services would be helpful to the Air Force. For it is out of this welter of confusion that basic misunderstandings are created.">8 Writing in the US Naval Institute Proceedings in April 1952, Col George C. Reinhardt, US Army, charged that "among the most radical enthusiasts of air power themselves, there exists today more divergent opinion on the composition of that power and of its optimum use in war than ever arose, between general and admiral, over the relative importance of land and sea combat." Reinhardt suggested that "Mahan, in his day, clarified not only the unification of the various functions of sea power into a cohesive force but also combined the strategy of sea and land combat into a practical, working entity." Reinhardt, therefore, concluded that "air power, American air power in particular, needs its Mahan." .  With the publication of AFM 1-2, United States Air Force Basic Doctrine, the Air Force possessed a codification of its fundamental ideas. "Of the various types of military forces," the April 1955 edition of the manual stated, "those which conduct air operations are most capable of decisive results. ... With air forces and modern weapon systems available, it no longer is necessary to defeat opposing armed forces as a prerequisite to conducting major operations directly against an opponent either in his sovereign territory or in any other locality." Recognizing that "the medium in which air forces operate — space — is an indivisible field of activity," the basic doctrine manual held that "all command arrangements must be in accord with the precept that neither air forces nor their field of activity can be segmented and partitioned among different interests. Because air forces possess the inherent ability to concentrate effort at decisive times and places, they can be employed in a variety of tasks for the purpose of accomplishing a variety of effects."  The statement of basic Air Force