reas, there can be no operational boundary between them. Thus air and space comprise a single continuous operational field in which the Air Force must continue to function. This area is areospace. . . . Total aerospace power includes snanned end unmanned air-breathing vehicles, spacecraft, and satellites and ballistic missiles.  Congressional reaction to aerospace was somewhat less than unanimously enthusiastic. Chairman John W. McCormack of the House Committee on Science and Astronautics described aerospace as "a very sweet term, a very all-embracing term." "Boys," Representative Daniel J. Flood exclaimed, "the Air Force has come up with a new phrase, ‘Aerospace.’ That is a beauty. ... That means everybody is out of space, and the air except the Air Force. ... They have now staked out a claim to ‘aerospace.”>4 To Under Secretary of the Air Force Malcolm A. Maclntyre, however, aerospace was not a catchword but an attempt "to identify, in a single word, the continuous operational field in which the Air Force must function as technological progress permits us to operate farther and farther away from the earth’s surface." MacIntyre denied that the Air Force claimed exclusive jurisdiction in aerospace. "In the use of the word ‘aerospace,” he explained,  there is no intention on the part of the Air Force to claim aerospace as an exclusive medium of our particular service. We recognize that the other services also have an interest, or, in the military parlance, requirements that can or should be met in the expanded medium of aerospace. However, each service’s interest, or requirements, is justified guly to the extent to which it enhances its ability to perform its particular missions.>*  In its final definition incorporated in the revision of Air Force Manual 1-2 issued on 1 December 1959, the Air Force stated: "Aerospace is an operationally indivisible medium consisting of the total expanse beyond the earth’s surface. The forces of the Air Force comprise a family of oper