rt of the strategic air striking arm, and he recommended that a scientific study be made of air defense. Generals Vandenberg and Fairchild immediately called in key members of the Scientific Advisory Board and requested that action be taken to execute Valley’s proposal. In November 1949 Vandenberg established an Air Defense Systems Engineering Committee under Valley and charged it to determine "the operational development of equipment and techniques—on an air defense system basis — which would produce maximum effective air defense for a minimum dollar investment." The committee of eight scientists— most of whom were associated with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology—met on weekends at the Cambridge Research Laboratories. In March 1950 the Valley committee proposed that a new system of close-in radar nets, communications facilities, information-processing computers, fighter-interceptors, and unmanned interceptor missiles would increase the probable kill ratio of attacking aircraft from 10 to 30 percent. It estimated that the interior defense would require some eight to ten mechanized air defense systems and that each would cost about $1 billion?  286  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 308 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  "The period which we all realized must some day come when intercontinental air warfare would be a possibility," General Fairchild stated on 7 February 1950, "is now at hand... . Air Force thought and action is oriented about the concept that our primary effort must be directed toward providing the means of surviving such an atomic phase, not only without disaster, but so that our relative strength would be such that we may mobilize and bring to bear any forces that may be required to assure victory." Fairchild believed that the Soviet atomic weapon had increased the importance of the American strategic striking force. "Indeed," he said,  its continued effective, efficient existence is the greatest deterrent against the possibility of occ