ft and guided missiles. . . . Maintains close liaison with the Headquarters of the Strategic Air Command, the Tactical Air Command and the Air Defense Command with regard to matters of policy and doctrine.  During 1946 the Air University established the Air War College at Maxwell Field, Montgomery, Alabama; the Air Command and Staff School at Craig Field, Selma, Alabama; and the Air Tactical School at Tyndall Field, Panama City, Florida. Believing that the Air University ought to furnish officers with facts, skills, and technical information and also to guide the future thinking of the Air Force, the Air University’s Faculty Board stated that the new educational institution would not be bound to accept official policies without question but would only present them for study. Regardless of existing policies, students could be told of the Air University’s beliefs. The Faculty Board stated that all curricula would incorporate a basic school doctrine: "the ultimate objective of air power is to force  365  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 387 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  the capitulation of an enemy nation by air action applied directly against the vital points of its national structure. This may not at any given time be primary in importance, but it is the ultimate objective."  The Air University’s broad responsibility for developing concepts and doctrines and for testing tactics rested upon an initial assumption that the institution would be assigned typical combat air units that could be employed for test purposes. As has been seen, Gen Carl A. Spaatz found it impossible to assign such units to the Air University and ordered that the Air University would depend on other commands to conduct tactical tests and developmental work. Spaatz also stated that the "doctrines taught at the Air University will be those current in the various commands, approved as necessary" by Air Force headquarters.* Seeking to bridge the conflict in orders, Maj Gen David M. Schlatter, th