Target Committee began to meet biweekly in July 1952 to study target opportunities and to recommend operational employments. After Weyland approved them, the committee’s recommendations were distributed within the Far East for information. Weyland would have liked a Navy representative on the Formal Target Committee, but felt that he had no authority to order it. Very late in the war, a Navy air officer was invited to attend the committee’s meetings. Except for its lack of authority over naval air operations, the FEAF Formal Target Committee became the basic theater agency for target selection and the medium through which basic air tasks outlined by Clark and Weyland were translated into planned air campaigns.  In terms of numerical capabilities, the Communist air forces in the Far East posed a continuing obstacle to the success of the United Nations air pressure strategy and to the safety of the United Nations Command. In June 1952 these  342  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 364 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  forces reached their apparent authorized strength: the Communist Chinese possessed some 1,830 aircraft (including 1,000 jet fighters)—some 1,115 of the Chinese planes were based in Manchuria; the Soviet air units possessed approximately 5,360 aircraft; and the reconstituted North Korean air force had about 270 planes. This Communist air order of battle dwarfed the United Nations air force; the Reds also conducted a vigorous modernization program. By November 1952 the Red Chinese obtained 100 of the latest model I-28 light jet bombers and based them in Manchuria. An extensive radar network fed information to a Red aircraft control center at Antung. In defending their fixed installations within North Korea, the Reds employed some 786 antiaircraft artillery guns, 1,672 automatic weapons, and 500 mobile search lights during the winter of 1952-53.~" Several factors, nevertheless, continued to work in favor of the United Nations Command. The Fifteenth Air Force ma