RDC) on 23 January 1950. General Saville assumed the duty as deputy chief of staff for development without delay, but the Air Research and Development Command required an evolutionary period to take control of the major Air Force research and development centers and to work out the mission and basic concepts that would guide the new organization’s research and development efforts“? The Ridenour committee’s (see chapter 6) report had demonstrated that past thinking on research and development had been too much on a project-by-project basis and that the research-development-production cycle had been much too long. "In the past," noted noe Gen Donald N. Yates, assistant deputy chief of staff for development, "we . . . pointed toward mainly the development of an aircraft . hoping tt that we could patch existing guns, armament, and electronics equipment into it." At the request of Gen Muir S. Fairchild, General Saville Prepared a staff study on the development and procurement of combat ready air vehicles. This study recommended adopting a systems approach in the development of new weapons; making of a decision to go into limited production at the time that the mock-up or breadboard model was approved; conducting an accelerated and integrated test program before the production rate was stepped up; and retaining development responsibility and authority within one agency during the life span of the equipment. The weapon system concept gained immediate acceptance. A weapon system was defined as "a completely and integrally equipped aircraft, missile or other flying device with all its airborne and ground equipment necessary to satisfy a military operational requirement. a 5 During its first year of operation, the Air Research and Development Command also faced the problem as to whether it should attempt to build and staff laboratories for Air Force research. After careful study, Dr Louis N. Ridenour advised Lt Gen Earle E. Partridge, who had taken command on 24 June 1951, th