uld be as inappropriate for ground officers to evaluate air tactics, techniques, and equipment as for air officers to attempt to do the same for similar ground activities. In the end, the Navy and Air Force members voted against the joint center proposal because it involved the transfer of legally established primary service responsibilities to new agencies.”  General Norstad, the Air Force deputy chief of staff for operations, agreed with the proposal of Maj Gen Robert M. Lee, commander of the Tactical Air Command, that a board of the Air Force’s most experienced tactical air commanders ought to review current doctrine, tactics, procedures, and equipment; draw conclusions as to their suitability in the light of new developments; and make appropriate recommendations. Gen Muir S. Fairchild established the USAF Board of Review for Tactical Air Operations on 10 June 1949; the membership included Lt Gen Elwood S. Quesada, Maj Gen Richard E. Nugent, General Schlatter, General Weyland, and Brig Gen David W. Hutchison. Appearing before the review board on 14 July, Gen J. Lawton Collins, US Army chief of staff, urged  375  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 397 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  that Field Manuals 100-20 and 31-35 be rewritten. Field Manual 100-20, for example, stated that missions against hostile forces at the front lines were "most difficult to control, are most expensive, and are in general least effective." Collins did not believe that this statement was necessarily true. He argued that Field Manual 31-35 should be revised to define tactical air support of ground forces as being "the application of tactical air power in the furtherance of a ground campaign as required by the ground force commander to achieve his mission." He also proposed that a joint tactical air support center be established in the Fort Bragg-Pope AFB area. After holding six formal sessions, each of several days’ duration, the board reported in October 1949. Its major finding was the Ai