d a division for military aviation. Second, he advocated a department of national defense with subsecretaries to control the air, the water, and the land. Many of Mitchell’s statements were hardly calculated to endear him to either the Army or the Navy. He said, for example, that the Air Service could get control of the air in two years if it could get half the cost of a battleship as an appropriation each year." It is a very serious question," he stated, "whether air power is auxiliary to the Army and the Navy, or whether armies and navies are not actually auxiliary to air power."!24 As late as December 1924, Patrick had considered that Mitchell had cooperated with Air Service policies and he had  45  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 67 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  recommended that Mitchell be reappointed as assistant chief of the Air Service. Because of the controversy that he stirred up during January and February 1925, however, Secretary Weeks told Patrick to recommend another officer for Mitchell’s position. Patrick chose Lt Col James E. Fechet, a veteran pilot and commander of the Advanced Flying School at Kelly Field, to replace Mitchell. On 26 April 1925, Mitchell accordingly reverted to his permanent rank of colonel and was transferred to San Antonio to serve as air officer of the VIII Corps Area.  In the early autumn of 1925, before the Lampert committee was able to make its report, the secretary of war and the secretary of the Navy jointly requested that President Calvin Coolidge appoint a board to study the best means of developing and applying aircraft in national defense. Agreeing with the request, Coolidge appointed a board headed by Dwight W. Morrow, lawyer and banker, on 12 September 1925. In an appearance before the President’s Aircraft Board, which would be better known as the Morrowboard, Patrick, on the first day of its hearings, again emphasized the poor state of preparedness of the Air Service and again requested that an Air Corp