sonnel rather than Air National Guard crews on alert, that the F-108 development program be reinstated to oppose the Soviet air-launched missile threat, that the supercombat centers be built, and that Nike-Zeus be produced as the only immediately prospective anti-ICBM defense.” During the spring of 1960, Congress displayed doubts about the recommended air defense revisions. The House of Representatives eliminated all funds for Bomarc not already committed and added funds sufficient to purchase enough F-106s to equip two additional fighter-interceptor squadrons. The Senate, on the other hand, voted funds for even more fighter-interceptors, restored Bomarc program cuts made by the House, and granted additional funds to provide two Bomarc bases in the northwestern United States. In a conference committee, Congress agreed to vote $100 million for additional F-106s and $244 million for Bomarc missiles. These amounts were approved in the Department of Defense Appropriation Act of 1961. However, on 9 August 1960 Secretary Gates decided that original appropriation requests had provided substantially for air defense, including "buy-out" procurement of Bomarc B missiles and improvements of existing interceptor aircraft, and that the additional appropriations would not be used.2”}  The Department of Defense and the Air Force considered that the air defense revisions of 1960 marked a recognition of the "imminent shift in the air threat to our security from aircraft alone to ballistic missiles and aircraft.""“ At the helm of the North American Air Defense Command, however, General Kuter continued to disagree with the downgrading of defense. "The course of aerospace defense," he stated upon retiring from the Air Force on 31 May 1962, "is a rather sporty course .. . of slow starts and some quick stops ... marked by a series of efforts to close gaps — gaps that have been created by advances in offensive weapon systems." As he looked backward Kuter observed that air defense had been