ing unrealistic. "That, I thought," said de Seversky, "was a great fallacy because improved explosives don’t necessarily change strategy; they may change tactics, but they do not change strategy. Whether you are carrying TNT or atomic bombs, you will have to win control over the medium through which you want to make a delivery. The means of delivery are more important than the explosives."®? A board of Air Staff officers named by Secretary Symington to analyze the reports of the president’s commission and the congressional board took more optimistic attitudes when it reported on 23 March 1948. These officers judged the four primary functions of the Air Force to be: defense against air attack, the capability to deliver an immediate retaliatory attack against an aggressor, tactical air support of ground forces, and gaining and maintaining air supremacy in order to carry out sustained air operations against vital enemy installations. Since both the commission and the board had recommended that the Air Force attain a 70-group strength, the board of officers recommended that the Air Force begin an immediate expansion toward that program.!  230  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 252 --- AF IN NATIONAL DEFENSE  Air Power and the Berlin Airlift  In the summer of 1947, prior to the organization of the National Defense Establishment and the investigations by the president’s commission and the congressional board, the Army, Navy, and Air Force had unilaterally prepared their budgets for fiscal year 1949. The budgets were based on the overall target of $10 billion that President Truman had indicated would be available for military defense. The service budgets supposedly were developed from Joint Chiefs of Staff plans, but the Joint Chiefs neither reviewed nor approved the detailed military budget. When Forrestal appeared before the president’s commission, he let it be known that he would be very reluctant to disturb the structure of the fiscal year 1949 military budget, exce