emantic thought patterns of the Air Force. "In this attempt to strike out on our own," said Col William W. Momyer, Air War College deputy commandant for evaluation, "we have encountered many obstacles that were certainly anticipated, and others that could not be foreseen. Of course, we have encountered . . . prejudice in respect to what constitutes doctrine.’ In the foreword to the final product, published on 1 April 1953 as Air Force Manual (AFM) 1-2, United States Air Force Basic Doctrine, Gen Hoyt S. Vandenberg, Air Force chief of staff, noted: "Basic air doctrine evolves from experience gained in war and from analysis of the continuing impact of new weapons systems on warfare." The purpose of the basic doctrine manual was to provide and impart to all Air Force personnel a basis for understanding the use of air forces in peace and in war and to serve as a background for the preparation of succeeding operational doctrine manuals that would cover the tactics and techniques of employing air forces.™ In preparing the contents of the basic doctrinal manual, Air University evaluators found that they had to relate doctrine to the hoary principles of war, to the roles and missions of the US armed forces, to tactics and strategy, and to a relatively new Air Force term called concepts.  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 27 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  As a part of its Army heritage, the Air Force received the age-old principles of war that were derived from the writings of Napoleon, Clausewitz, and Jomini and which had been best summarized in modern times by Great Britain’s Maj Gen J. F. C. Fuller. The American version of the principles of war had first appeared in War Department Training Regulation 10-5 in 1921. When Maj William C. Sherman published his personal opinions on aviation in a book entitled Air Warfare in 1926, he included a chapter that applied the principles of war to air warfare. These principles also were discussed in the Air Corps Tactical School text