bring effective and lasting results." Looking backward at World War II in October 1945, Arnold said: "The Air Force’s primary mission the world over was to knock out enemy air power — to win the air war.... All types of aircraft shared in this task in many different roles." Doolittle pointed out that the United States had to have control of the air over Japan before it could deliver the atomic bomb. "The first lesson," he said, "is that you can’t lose a war if you have command of the air, and you can’t win a war if you haven’t.">7 "You know, at first hand," Spaatz told a convention of air veterans in November 1947, "the penalty paid by Germany and Japan for their failure to control the air over their own territories. You know the inevitable outcome of any failure to control the air over our own country."/°8 Writing in 1950, Col Dale O. Smith and Maj Gen John DeForest Barker, noted: "It has long been held as Air Force doctrine that air superiority should be the primary mission of air power."!  The Air Force doctrine of air superiority or control of the air was quite acceptable to War Department and Army spokesmen. Robert P. Patterson stated: "World War II drove home the lesson that a nation lacking in air power has no chance of winning a war. ... In every campaign fought out on the surface, success went to the side that had local command of the air. . .. Without command of the  171  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 193 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  air, the launching of a military operation on land or sea was virtually unthinkable."" As Lt Gen Manton S. Eddy stated in March 1949, "There is no question in a soldier’s mind that air power is as indispensable to the national security as bread and water are to life. Land forces cannot fight decisively unless the air is controlled by its sister services."!*! "In spite of the fact that air power can never be decisive in total war," General Bradley told an audience in November 1951, "the air battle must be won i