chief of staff. He explained that the Air University would coordinate the subject matter of all proposed manuals with appropriate Air Force commands and would refer points of difference to the Air Staff for decision. He demonstrated that the Air Materiel Command already possessed a similar authority to approve and publish technical orders and manuals. General Fairchild felt that Barker’s proposal had some merit; nevertheless, he ruled that the doctrinal manuals would have to be approved by the Air Staff, with the deputy chief of staff for operations acting as the approving officer for all operational manuals.  In the summer of 1950 the immediate impact of the Korean War and the subsequent expansion of the Air Force had important effects upon the Air University’s organization for the production of doctrinal manuals. The Air Force at once suspended all of the Air University’s schools but indicated that many of the instructors would continue to be available to the Air University. Some of the instructors might be used to complete the "Commander’s Guide."”” Within a few weeks the Air Force decided that the Air War College ought to conduct accelerated classes and that the Air Command and Staff College would be moved from Craig AFB to Maxwell AFB, where it would also conduct short school sessions. The Air Tactical School at Tyndall, however, would be inactivated. On 24 July, Barker proposed that the surplus instructors from this school ought to be brought to Maxwell and assigned to the Air University Evaluation Division. Under former planning, the Air University had intended that manuals should be drafted in its several schools. Now, however, Barker wished to concentrate the function in the Evaluation Division, which would become a separate entity in the Air War College. This proposal did not please the Air War College inasmuch as it considered the evaluation function to be germane to the college’s educational function. However, an Air University study committee pointed ou