ajor difficulty in mustering the air attacks against Germany appeared to be the scarcity of airfields in England and in the Middle East, the latter area being tentatively designated as the operating location for long-range B-29s. Based on intelligence estimates of 154 strategic targets in Germany, expected bombing accuracy, and a desire to complete the air campaign in a six-month period, the planners computed that 98 bombing groups would be required, of which only 54 could be based in England and the Middle East. For this reason, the planning staff stated an urgent requirement for developing 44 groups (3,740 aircraft) of bombers, which would have a 4,000-mile tactical operating radius. These planes would be able to operate against Germany from bases in Newfoundland, Greenland, Africa, India, or the northeastern United States. The use of these 4,000-mile-range bombers would permit some reductions in other types of units, with the result that the ultimate force — which could not be ready before 1945— would consist of 239 groups and 108 observation squadrons, for a grand total of 63,467 planes.  AWPD-1 was signed by General Arnold and its findings were immediately the subject of almost daily briefings to Air Corps and War Department officers. Comments were generally favorable, although Lt Col Clayton Bissell, an Air Corps officer in the War Plans Division, argued that the need for an escort fighter was just as great as the need for a 4,000-mile-range bomber. He thought it peculiar that the plan called for only 13 experimental escort fighters but called for 3,740 of the 4,000-mile-range bombers, when the latter would be just as much a developmental problem as the former.!®° Nevertheless, Secretary Lovett tacitly approved the study and General Marshall marked it "Okay, G. C. M." on 1 September. On the afternoon of 11 September and the morning of 12 September, George, Walker, and Kuter presented AWPD-1 to Secretary Stimson and Assistant Secretary John J. McCloy. Stimson a