functions of the several armed forces. Guarantees for the unchanged status of the Marine Corps and for land-based naval aviation already had been added to the basic law. But Truman’s executive order charged the United States Air Force to organize, train, and equip air forces for air operations including joint operations; to gain and maintain general air superiority; to establish local air superiority where and as required; to develop a strategic air force and conduct strategic air reconnaissance operations; to provide airlift and support for airborne operations; to furnish air support to land and naval forces including support of occupation forces; and to provide air transport for the armed forces except as provided by the Navy for its own use.  Key West Agreements on Roles and Missions  Speaking on 26 July 1947, retired Lt Gen James H. Doolittle exclaimed: "This is the day Billy Mitchell dreamed of." Toward the end of a transition period  196  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 218 --- AF IN NATIONAL DEFENSE  provided in the law, James Forrestal assumed the duties of secretary of defense on 17 September 1947 and on 18 September 1947 W. Stuart Symington took the oath of office as the first secretary of the Department of the Air Force. Although it hailed the National Security Act of 1947 as a substantial achievement, Air Force Magazine, voicing the sentiments of the new Air Force Association, pointed out that important matters remained to be resolved:  Still to be decided is the irritating question of where naval air authority ends and Air Force responsibility begins. . . . Still to come are the increased economies which can only be achieved through the avoidance of duplication, multiple use of equipment, and a combined training program —and the even greater economies which will be realized only wash it is possible to draw on one air force for the requirements of all other services.”  It is difficult to determine from available records exactly what opinions