Jima midway between the Marianas and Japan to serve as a base for long-range escort fighters. The same month Arnold committed five long-range P-47N and P-51 fighter groups to the XXI Bomber Command. As it happened, Japanese air defenses were never a serious threat to the B-29s. Although the Japanese were able to stage a few heckling attacks through Iwo Jima against the airfields in the Marianas in November 1944 and even though in the early months of B-29 operations against aircraft factories, the Japanese were able to concentrate their fighters on occasion and to shoot down a few B-29s. Japan’s air defenses actually were rapidly losing their effect and the heckling attacks had ceased before Nimitz’s forces invaded Iwo Jima on 19 February 1945. After very severe ground fighting had cleared the island, the VII Fighter Command deployed three fighter groups to Iwo Jima in March. Long-range Mustangs escorted B-29s to Tokyo on 7 April. But the fighters were not often called upon for such support. Meanwhile the XXI Bomber Command had begun to operate mostly at night. After 5 June 1945, the Japanese made their last effective air opposition against day-flying B-29s. Thereafter, the Japanese yielded complete air supremacy, electing to hoard their remaining aircraft for suicide attacks against an expected surface invasion.!>  163  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 185 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Until 6 March 1945, General LeMay had considered that the XXI Bomber Command had not "really accomplished a hell of a lot of bombing results." The command, however, was gaining strength. A third bombardment wing began operations from North Field on Guam on 25 February. Anticipating the arrival of this third B-29 wing, Arnold had issued a new target directive on 19 February that continued to give first priority to precision attacks against aircraft engine factories but made incendiary attacks against urban industrial concentrations in Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, and Kawasaki a s