he Army Air Forces. The chief of the Air Corps would receive the drafts, prepare them for publication, and, following final approval of the Army Air Forces, submit them to the War Department adjutant general for publication.  106  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 128 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  In July 1941 Colonel Sorenson was summoned to Washington to serve as assistant chief of air staff, intelligence. Several acting directors now headed the Air Corps Board, which was physically transferred from Maxwell to the new Air Corps Proving Ground at Eglin Field, Florida, on 10 September 1941. During the summer of 1941, the Air Corps Tactical School with its Training Literature Unit was physically transferred to Washington, where it was made responsible to the Air Corps Training and Operations Division. Here the Training Literature Unit was greatly expanded by the assignment of reserve officers from colleges and universities, but its major work was the editorial production of technical manuals and extension courses. At Eglin Field the remnant of the Air Corps Board became moribund. According to the recollection of Col H. G. Montgomery, who was assigned to the board in the autumn of 1941, the board continued to do good work, but many of its reports were promptly filed and forgotten by Air Staff divisions that disagreed with the conclusions and recommendations. In a final effort to save the board, its director wrote personally to Arnold recommending that a whole new group of officers would be assigned to the board if the ones serving were not to be believed. This action went without result.!°°  As General Fairchild had protested, the divided responsibility for formulating and promulgating doctrine was indeed awkward and the contemplated cooperation was not going to materialize. Under the Air Force Combat Command, test and experimentation in air defense was centered at I Interceptor Command at Mitchel Field. Major Saville, now the executive officer of I Interceptor Comman