at moment" that broke the division-by-services defense funds allocation pattern, but Truman’s decision to hold military spending below $60 billion delayed the earliest date of readiness of the modernized Air Force to 30 June 1955.1” Even with the delay of the readiness date, the 143-wing program could be achieved only by the most stringent manning standards and economies of allocation of first-line aircraft,  325  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 347 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  including the elimination of any combat reserve, the cancellation of a planned modernization of the 11 Air National Guard wings, and the equipping of no more than half of the Air Reserve wings with first-line aircraft.“”” The decision to eliminate the hoary old requirements for a combat reserve of aircraft and aircrews was not made lightly. "We are doing it," Finletter explained, "because we are trying to concentrate the dollar on the striking power on D-day. It is an enormous saving.  . It is possible that we have made a mistake, but I do not think so. I think the important thing is to concentrate on striking power on. D-day, even though the forces may be attrited downward sharply thereafter.""”” General Twining noted that the deficiency in war reserves would be felt in five ways.  First, our capacity to continue long-range atomic attack would be sharply reduced after the crucial initial phase... .Second, our capacity to make good the attrition of our air units in Europe would remain slight for some time after the outset of hostilities. Third, our capacity to make good the attrition among Allied air units using American equipment would be extremely limited. .. . Fourth, our capacity to augment our air strength in the Far East in the event of a general war would be severely limited. Fifth, in the light of these realities the force contemplated . . . is down to the "bare bones."24  In view of the prominence accorded to the Air Force in the defense budget for fiscal year 1953, Ai