ome of the difficulties that the Evaluation Staff had encountered:  We have found from this past year of research that the writing of manuals is perhaps one of the most difficult tasks in the field of military writing. It is creative and yet it must be exact. These requirements dictate thorough research and imagination on the part of the author in translating the research into a manuscript that is easily understood and yet is complete in context. Unfortunately, there are very few individuals who possess this particular talent... . For the most part our greatest difficulty has been a lack of precedent in this field of writing. . ..The manuals we are attempting to produce have little similarity to the stereotyped and somewhat stultified type manual produced by the Army. In this attempt to strike out on our own, we have encountered many obstacles that were certainly anticipated, and others that could not be foreseen. Of course, we have encountered the additional prejudice in respect to what constitutes doctrine, tactics, techniques, and procedures. Thus, we have been seeking for a level of writing that has no definition and is not always apparent when one thinks it has been obtained. . .. Our experience to date reveals general acceptance of the fundamentals presented but non-concurrence in the manner in which those fundamentals have been expressed; not only non-concurrence in the expression but in some measure the degree of detail subscribed to those expressions and fundamentals. The only method by which we can strike a balance as to detail and scope is by trial and error. I recognize this to be a long and laborious task but all short cuts to date have failed. ... We find ourselves constantly in a dilemma as to whether too much detail has been presented or whether we have become so terse that the meaning is clouded and darkness descends upon the reader.  In addition to the problem of delimiting the characteristics of the operational manuals, the Evaluation Staff had di