ign. Vandenberg was reluctant to discuss the matter in open sessions, but he reiterated the historic fact: "No bombing mission set in motion by the Army Air Forces in World War II was ever stopped short of its target by enemy opposition." In response to another pointed question, he said: "We have new tactics, new techniques, new speeds, new altitudes, an entirely different type of explosive. Where at one time the losses might be unacce eptable, in another war, in order to destroy a target, they might be very acceptable."”’’ Pressed still further, Vandenberg made an appraisal that would plague him for the next several years. "In our defensive system or in that of Britain or of any other country with an air defense system," he said, "the ultimate that we can ever hope for from the point of view of destruction of forces launched against us is in the neighborhood of 25 percent. That is the ultimate, and it undoubtedly would be less than that. He  In their testimony before the hearings, both Symington and Vandenberg emphasized that the Joint Chiefs of Staff were in full agreement that "the capacity for an immediate retaliatory strategic bombing offensive is considered essential to the security plans of the United States." "Today," said Vandenberg, “our air potential is the most effective single deterrent to aggression; it is the strongest single force working for peace. "In the first place," said Symington, "the Air  254  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 276 --- AF IN NATIONAL DEFENSE  Force believes that the atomic bomb plus the air power necessary to deliver it represent the one most important visible deterrent to the start of any war... . Secondly, if war comes, we believe that the atomic bomb plus the air power to deliver it represent the one means of unloosing prompt crippling destruction upon the enemy, with absolute minimum combat exposure of American lives."" Both Symington and Vandenberg disavowed any belief that an atomic blitz could produce a "quic