s board to formulate uniform tactical doctrine. As has been seen, such a board had existed on paper since 1922 and had been moved with the Air Corps Tactical School from Langley to Maxwell in 1931. For more than two years, General Foulois resisted suggestions from within his own office that the Air Corps Board ought to be revitalized, both because he had a scarcity of senior officers and because he preferred to rely on the Air Corps Plans Division for policy recommendations. Although the Baker board forced him to act, Foulois continued to plead that the Air Corps did not have the five to eight senior officers needed to man the Air Corps Board. He accordingly received permission to name the commandant and assistant commandant of the Tactical School to serve on the board as an additional duty. Two officers already at Maxwell, Maj William O. Ryan and Lt Gordon P. Saville, were assigned to the board on full-time duty. In a statement of mission, the Air Corps Board was directed to consider such subjects as might be referred to it by the chief of the Air Corps and to originate and submit to the chief of the Air Corps recommendations looking toward the improvement of the Air Corps.»  Development of Doctrine in the Air Corps and GHQ Air Force  Looking backward with regret at his failure to have convinced "those earnest and conscientious men" of the Baker board of the urgent national need to unify our military forces and to form an independent air force, James H. Doolittle observed in 1945 that the report of the Baker board should have borne the subtitle: Pearl Harbor, Here We Come. "Basically," reminisced Doolittle, "the trouble was that we had to talk about air power in terms of promise and prophecy instead of in terms of demonstration and experience."° When the GHQ Air Force was organized and began to receive modern aircraft, the Air Corps was able to begin basing its doctrine on a lengthening record of demonstrations and experience.  Because of fundamental changes in the