rd.  In the course of exploiting captured German technological data, the Air Materiel Command’s Project Paperclip brought several prominent German scientists to Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio. Included in the group was former Maj Gen Walter R. Dornberger, who had headed the German military rocket development program. These German scientists assisted in drafting the missile research and development program, and the Air Force gave considered thought as to whether the group ought not to be retained as an in-house research and development capability within the Air Materiel Command. In the early 1920s the Air Corps had attempted to design and build aircraft at Wright Field, but this arsenal system had proved inferior to the development of aircraft by private enterprise. The Army Air Forces, therefore, decided not to retain the group of German missile experts; within a few years most of them were employed by private industry."  "The aerial missile, by whatever means it may be delivered," warned Maj Gen Hugh J. Knerr, secretary-general of the AAF Air Board, on 26 February 1946, "is the weapon of the Air Corps. Unless we recognize it as such and aggressively establish ourselves as most competent in this field, the responsibility therefore will become established by the Army or the Navy."!2 Since only a limited quantity of "brains and materials" was available for research and development in the United States, Knerr feared that scarce resources might be overtaxed by competing Army, Navy, and Army Air Forces projects. Under the terms of a War Department directive issued on 2 October 1944, the Army Air Forces was responsible for the development within the Army "of all guided or homing missiles launched from the ground which depend for sustenance primarily on the lift of aerodynamic forces."4 The first organization dealing exclusively with guided missiles was established early in 1945 by the Joint Chiefs of Staff for the purpose of reviewing projects concerned with the development o