tegic employments.’ ¢  The Army Air Forces planned a wide range of exploratory projects and intended that only those projects that showed definite promise after preliminary study would be continued.” The inspiration for a part of the projects came from industrial sources. Simon Ramo, for example, visualized that future combat against an adversary equipped with an A-bomb would require air-launched missiles "so that our fighter planes could stand off at a distance safely and launch the missiles and go home while the missiles went about doing the job." Believing that the "military field was going to be a very fascinating and important one for that class of scientist who was interested in applied technology," Ramo went to work as director of research in the radio division of the Hughes Aircraft Company.’ Other projects followed lines of research indicated by German progress, thus visualizing parallel development of both subsonic pilotless aircraft and supersonic guided missiles. Specific projects undertaken in early 1946 included the Falcon air-to-air missile; the Rascal standoff missile; the ground-to-ground Matador, Snark, and Navaho winged pilotless aircraft missiles; and the MX-774 Hiroc intercontinental  478  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 500 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  ballistic missile. Looking toward ground-to-air defense, the Army Air Forces gave Boeing Company a contract for ground-to-air pilotless aircraft (GAPA) for use against high-performance aircraft and contracted with the General Electric Company and the University of Michigan to undertake a basic design for ballistic trajectory rockets capable of intercepting and destroying hostile missiles. Conducted at the Willow Run Research Center, the University of Michigan study was designated Project Wizard.  In the course of exploiting captured German technological data, the Air Materiel Command’s Project Paperclip brought several prominent German scientists to Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio. Included in