r forces rather than one of finding means to maintain an aircraft industry. If the former were accomplished," the board believed, "the health of the latter would be assured."  225  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 247 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  In November and December 1947 the testimony of influential witnesses before the President’s Aviation Policy Commission manifested a growing awareness of the importance of US military strength but illustrated diverse opinions as to what its composition ought to be. "Insofar as our thinking about preparation, readiness for war, or national security . . . is concerned," said Secretary Forrestal,  we are faced with the hard and solid fact that as a democracy we do not start wars and therefore can never be in a complete state of readiness. ... This nation’s experience has been a clear demonstration that peace will not be furthered by the neglect of military strength... . In the past, we have invited aggression by that neglect. The military policies of this nation stem from a single desire and obligation. That is to use our strength as a force for peace.  He emphasized the close relationship between the State Department and the National Defense Establishment. "One of our principal tasks," he said, "is to see to it that there is integration between our foreign policy and our military attitude. In other words, to see to it that the policy does not outstrip power."  Forrestal pointed out that America’s concept of national security had changed. Before World War II, he said,  our concepts of security were the integrity of our own domain, and the freedom from... attack or danger of invasion. . . . In my own view .. . our security is now far broader than that. Our security is . . . our ability to contribute to the reconstruction of the world, and... our military requirements have to be fitted into the pattern of what we do toward the other larger results, in other words, the reconstruction of society.  He also said: "It wo