ment of Soviet strategy was arrived at by Rand associate Allen S. Whiting, after a careful study of admittedly fragmentary evidence.® As early as February 1951, however, Alexander de Seversky suggested that Malik’s failure to attend the Security Council meetings and to veto initial United Nations actions in Korea might not have been a mistake. "I do not agree," he said, "that the Soviets did not expect us to fight in Korea, or that Malik was away from the Security Council ... by mistake. It was all done by design, to draw us from the other side of the world and use up as much as possible of our potential, and we just fell right into the trap." Somewhat later, Seversky would also suggest that the Soviets may have opened the hostilities in Korea as a part of a well-concealed plan to encourage orthodox military thinking in the United States and to lead it to prepare "to fight again decisive battles on the ground . .. on Russia’s terms and under conditions . . . that favor Russia in every respect."  Whatever the strategy of the Soviet Union may have been, the North Korean armed forces began a well-prepared invasion of the Republic of Korea in the early morning hours of 25 June 1950. Even though Soviet forces were not overtly present, General Bradley found it evident that "militant international communism inspired the northern invaders" and that, for the first time, "communism is willing to use arms to gain its ends."©’ The major lesson to the free world was that the Communists would use force to accomplish foreign policy objectives. "The communist aggression in Korea," stated Secretary of Defense George C. Marshall, who assumed direction of the nation’s defense effort on 12 September 1950, "marked the beginning of a new military policy for the United States. It left no doubt that the Soviet government and its satellites were willing to risk a general war by multiple aggression all over the world, unless confronted by substantial military strength.""” Calling Korea a ver