c Charter—the master US lend-lease agreement, which pledged recipients to encourage freer postwar trade —and in the United Nations declaration of 1 January 1942, which pledged that the Allies would work for a postwar world political organization. But General Lincoln noted that these political objectives were stated in such broad language that they give little precise guidance to military strategy. Lt Gen Albert C. Wedemeyer recalled that as a military planner he was "vague about the national aims of our own country.""- One result of the broad political guidance was General Hansell’s recollection that American military planners eventually tended to ignore the fact that the war should be fought "from the standpoint of continuing international relations to which the war was an unhappy interlude." As Hansell recalled, "My military bosses and my associates and I were consumed with one  148  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 170 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  overpowering purpose: How to win the war with assurance and fewest American casualties. We had little concern for what happened afterward."  In the early months of 1942 the Allies were on the defensive, but at Casablanca in January 1943 the Anglo-American heads of state and combined military staffs undertook to define their war aims and to visualize offensive operations against Germany. On 7 January, prior to leaving Washington for the conference, President Roosevelt met with the Joint Chiefs and told them that he intended to secure an agreement that the Allies would not end the war until they had attained the unconditional surrender of the Axis nations. No military staff work had been done on unconditional surrender and Roosevelt did not invite military discussion of the matter. To Roosevelt the statement of unconditional surrender as the Allies’ war aim simplified the political complexities of the alliance’s diplomacy. "We have the British, de Gaulle, the Russians, and several other elements," he would explain in pri