ational space programs. "One of the major provocations of .. . interservice rivalry . . .." Secretary McElroy stated, "arises from the fact that there are certain types of weapons that come into the picture which do not have any obvious and specific connection with one or more of the services." A little later McElroy specifically observed that in his opinion missiles were "weapon systems which do not naturally fall within the responsibilities of individual services." Deputy Secretary Quarles justified the assignment of long-range, surface-to-surface missiles to the Air Force not because of the Air Force mission but because it possessed targeting and reconnaissance capabilities needed to employ them.’? On 15 November 1957 McElroy named William M. Holaday as defense director of guided missiles and charged him to "direct all activities in the Department of Defense relating to research, development, engineering, production, and procurement of guided missiles."”4 McElroy conceived that Holaday’s job had two different aspects: one was to monitor and supervise all research and engineering work in the field of guided missiles, and the other was to assure appropriate priority handling of all guided missile problems in connection with their transition from research and development into production and procurement.”> Both to alleviate service rivalry and to handle will-of-the-wisp  589  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 611 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  research and development projects in the fields of satellites and space, McElroy announced on 20 November 1957 that he intended to establish a special projects agency within the Department of Defense. The agency would handle research and development on advanced weapons, which, if operationally feasible, would be assigned to one of the services for production and employment. McElroy announced that responsibility for the development of an antimissile missile would be assigned to the agency, and he implied that responsi