Japan. It also pointed out that Japan’s urban industrial areas were few, concentrated, and very vulnerable to incendiary attack,1%  159  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 181 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Because of logistical problems the XX Bomber Command would be able to operate only a few B-29 groups from bases in isolated south-central China. From Chengtu, moreover, the B-29s would not have enough range to reach Tokyo and other industrial targets on Honshu. Hence, AAF planners favored the Mariana Islands as potential bases for B-29s but had no real information as to the number of bases that could be built in these islands, which were held by the Japanese. Bases were accordingly constructed in the Aleutians at Adak and Shemya to accommodate four B-29 groups; an existing airfield on Ceylon was enlarged to permit B-29 staging for attacks against the oil fields in the Netherlands East Indies; and consideration was given to eventually establishing a B-29 command in the Philippines. At the Sextant conference in Cairo, however, Arnold urged that B-29 operations ought to be begun from China in May 1944 and from the Marianas before the end of that year. Once again the Combined Chiefs of Staff authorized continued advances through the Central and Southwest Pacific without definitely accepting either line of attack as being better than the other. During February 1944 the Pacific strategy was more fully debated in Washington by representatives of General MacArthur and Adm Chester W. Nimitz, commander in chief of the Pacific Fleet and Pacific Ocean areas. General Hansell, siding with Nimitz’s representative, presented the AAF concept of the Pacific war, which stressed the importance of the Marianas to the bomber offensive against Japan proper to the Joint Chiefs of Staff on 15 February. After hearing all parties, the Joint Chiefs on 12 March 1944 ordered Admiral Nimitz’s Pacific forces to invade the Marianas beginning on 15 June 1944. Since a new XXI Bomber Comm