his type of close, accurate, and effective support of the frontline fighting units was provided and proved an essential element in the achievement of the Army objectives.  The case for the concept that tactical air units belong under the Air Force rather than under the Army is supported by the abundant evidence of World War II, but does not rest on this evidence alone. Basically, the Army does not belong in the air—it belongs on the ground. Planes are but a facet of the over-all problem, which is basically much broader and includes responsibilities now involving approximately one-third of the Air Force. Control of the tactical Air Force means responsibility, not merely for the fighters and medium bombers themselves, but, as well, for the entire operating establishment required to support these planes. This includes the requisite basic air research and development program necessary to maintain a vital arm and the additional specialized service forces to support the arm; for example: air maintenance units, aircraft warning units (radar, DF stations), tactical air communications nets, etc. In short, assumption  176  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 198 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  of this task by the Army would duplicate in great measure the primary and continuing responsibilities of the Air Force and, in effect, would result in the creation of another air establishment.  Some other factors also evidently bore on the Army’s rejection of the Marine Corps air support system. The Marine Corps was designated, equipped, manned, and trained to engage in shock-type action that would be limited in time, magnitude, and scope. Army divisions, on the other hand, were intended to operate in sustained ground campaigns on broad theater fronts. While Marine Corps commanders would have to depend on air support as a substitute for artillery firepower, Army commanders preferred to rely upon the supporting fire of their own organic artillery within the first thousand yards beyond the fr