e an important source of information for the Air Operations Briefs, which were published, beginning 30 November 1944, to disseminate combat lessons throughout the Air Force.  The revamped board made many successful contributions to the use of air power in the war. Over Europe in the autumn of 1943, bomber formations devised by the AAF Board helped cut down Eighth Air Force combat losses. Another study, "Development of Tactics and Techniques for the Destruction of the German Air Force," was a guiding doctrine in establishing American air superiority over Europe. General Spaatz stated that board reports and lectures by its liaison officer, Lt Col Robert C. Richardson III, were of great assistance in overcoming the menace of German jet fighters. The massed B-29 fire raids over Japan, which were begun in March 1945, were initiated in accordance with a plan visualized in an AAF Board project entitled "Incendiary Attack on Japanese Cities."  Although it was active in testing aircraft and equipment and in developing and disseminating tactics and techniques for employing air power, the AAF Board made slower progress in revising and preparing new doctrinal publications. Only after completing a higher priority study entitled "Initial Post-War Air Force" did the AAF Board approve and forward to Washington, on 4 May 1944, a draft titled "The Tactical Air Force: Organization and Employment," which it considered to be an adequate revision of the obsolete FM 31-35. Upon completing another study, "Combat Fighter Formations," the board felt that it had adequately revised FM 1-15, Tactics and Techniques of Air Fighting, and it believed that it had accomplished all outstanding manual projects. This optimism was premature. The board’s responsibilities were soon to be expanded.  While the board was working on the tactical air force study, Colonel Stearley had been assigned to the Office of the Assistant Chief of Air Staff for Training in Washington. In March 1944 he had assembled a comm