on the sea or war on land.  In the same months that Mitchell was carrying on the fight for a separate department of aviation, he and other officers were also defining a role for an expanded Air Service within the Army. Major Foulois, who was assigned to the director of air service’s office, bitterly attacked the shortsighted policies of Army General Staff officers in testimony before a congressional committee on 16 October 1919. These officers, Foulois said, were interested only in a "defensive use" of aircraft and had neglected "the fighting side of aircraft." Although Foulois presented an elaborate justification of the materiel and logistical advantages to be obtained from a Department of Aeronautics and although he was far more critical of the General Staff than was Mitchell at this early date, he was somewhat less positive about the relationship of aeronautics to the national defense. "The use of aircraft during the recent war," he said, "has fully demonstrated the fact that in future wars aircraft will play a part second only to the infantry." He added: "In time of war there is no question but that, in order to get the maximum efficiency of all elements of a military command, air service units as well as any other units, must come under the command of the supreme military commander in the field."  In a paper entitled "Tactical Application of Military Aeronautics," apparently prepared in January 1920, Mitchell defined the principal mission and the secondary employment of aeronautics. "The principal mission of Aeronautics," he stated, "is to destroy the aeronautical force of the enemy, and, after this, to attack his formations, both tactical and strategical, on the ground or on the water. The secondary employment of Aeronautics pertains to their use as an auxiliary to troops on the ground for enhancing their effect against the hostile troops." In this paper, Mitchell divided combat aviation into four branches (which would be classic for many years): pursuit, bomb