"are of one mind: this nation will maintain a national air power superior to that of any other nation in the world." In this speech before the National Press Club and in another presentation to the congressional appropriations subcommittees in March 1954, Admiral Radford defined air power to include "the Air Force, naval aviation, Marine Corps aviation, Army aviation, and the tremendous aircraft industry and civil air transport systems of the United States." Secretary Wilson described the New Look as "a natural evolution from the crash program that was adopted following the beginning of hostilities in Korea." Even though Wilson described the New Look as a logical application of economy in force to be attained by the exploitation of new nuclear weapons, he denied that the United States would place sole or exclusive reliance on the new weapons. General Twining described the New Look as a strategy that satisfied the twofold requirement of "preparedness for general war, should one occur; and maintenance of the capability to cope with lesser situations — with. . . less of a drain on our manpower, material, and financial resources."  To carry out the recommended national defense program for fiscal year 1955, Congress made available to the Department of Defense a new obligational authority, subdivided as follows — $7.6 billion for the Army, $9.7 billion for the Navy, and $11.6 billion for the Air Force.” Though the New Look professed to depend heavily upon an air power posture, former Secretary of the Air Force Finletter was quick to point out that the budget figures showed Air Force and Navy appropriations substantially the same as they had been the previous year, whereas the Army’s funding had been substantially reduced. Finletter urged that fiscal considerations still had too much weight in determining the size of the military establishment, and he found that "the composition of the Armed Forces is still dominated by the Division-by-Services method, thus producing a com