ed the tasks of a tactical air force as being air superiority, interdiction, and close support, it did not attempt to describe.the exact organization to be used in combat theaters. In Italy the Fifth Army and the XII Tactical Air Command attained unity of purpose by maintaining adjacent headquarters and holding nightly planning conferences. Calls for close air support went back from frontline units to the army air section and were monitored by the corps air section. If the corps remained silent, it was assumed that the corps could not handle the mission by artillery or other means. The request was reported at once by the army air section to ground liaison officers at the airdromes, while G-3 and tactical air command officers determined whether the mission should be flown. About 50 percent of these requests were refused. Approximately 75 percent of the refused missions were disapproved by G-3 as not in conformity with army plans, while the  173  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 195 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  remainder were rejected by the tactical air command on technical grounds. At the front lines, experienced pilots served tours of duty as forward air controllers to direct support aircraft to their targets. When necessary, especially in the mountainous terrain of Italy, a Rover Joe or Horsefly airborne tactical air controller flying a liaison plane would lead support aircraft to their targets.1°  The organization for tactical air control adopted in the European theater was an expansion of the system employed in Italy. In the battles of France and Germany, the Ninth Air Force cooperated with the 12th Army Group while subordinate air commands developed very close relationships with various armies: the IX Tactical Air Command with the First Army, the XIX Tactical Air Command with the Third Army, and the XXIX Tactical Air Command with the Ninth Army. Each of these tactical air commands possessed microwave ground control interception radars, and their f