ered because of the 100-mile restriction, except by special permission, placed by the War Department on the distance to which airplanes may fly to sea." ‘  Westover protested that disapproval of the Woodring program had set the development of the Air Corps back by at least five years and would restore hit-or-miss procurement. He formally requested that the original Woodring program be reestablished and that the Air Corps be authorized to develop a  87  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 109 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  successor aircraft to the B-17.! The War Department General Staff deliberated Westover’s reclamé at great length. In the end the G-4 Division provided General Craig with what he described as "a very able study," which was used as the basis for the carefully weighed War Department decision rendered on 5 October 1938. In this decision the War Department professed to recognize the increased potential of aircraft, but it still proclaimed that "none of this progress . . . has changed the conception that the Infantry Division continues to be the basic combat element by which battles are won, the enemy field forces destroyed and captured territory held." Moreover, the War Department held to the position that all combat arms ought to be brought up to nearly equal preparedness status and that the Air Corps could not be maintained "in a higher state of immediate war readiness than the other arms." It enjoined the Air Corps "to obtain and develop aircraft suitable for the close support of ground troops to the same extent that now pertains with respect to types suitable for strategic and more distant missions." Only one concession was made. In order to provide areplacement for the B-17 at some future date the restriction previously imposed on the development of four-engine bombing planes was rescinded. a  Efforts to Describe Air Doctrine  At least in theory the chief of air corps was responsible for preparing Air Corps doctrine. In June 1935 General W