ty of a lower echelon of authority to resolve an interservice problem that could not be solved at the highest level of authority," Barker observed that "the same divergence of views at the highest level of authority which mitigated against a resolution of the problem are manifestly evident at the lower echelons because of disseminated service positions on such controversial matters."  In accordance with the JAAF agreement, the Army, Navy, and Air Force had moved promptly to establish the joint boards, which were to develop joint doctrines and procedures; evaluate joint tactics and techniques, adequacy of equipment, and adequacy of joint training; and review publications covering the conduct of joint training. In August and September 1951, General Vandenberg named some of his best senior officers to head the joint boards for which the Air Force served as executive agent: Maj Gen Grandison Gardner to the Joint Tactical Air Support Board at Pope AFB and Maj Gen Earl S. Hoag to the Joint Troop Carrier Board, which was soon redesignated as the Joint Air Transportation Board, also at Pope AFB. The Army established the Joint Airborne Troop Board at Fort Bragg as a successor to the former Army Airborne Center; Maj Gen William M. Miley, who had commanded the center, now headed the board. The Marine Corps established the Joint Landing Board with the Marine Corps Schools in Quantico, Virginia, and this board was headed by the school’s commandant — first by Lt Gen Franklin A. Hart and soon thereafter by Lt Gen Clifton B. Cates—as a collateral duty. The Navy established the Joint Amphibious Board at Tittle Creek, Virginia, under the chairmanship of Rear Adm Lyman A. Thackerey.!* 5 Army, Navy, Marine, and Air Force officers were assigned to full-time duty on the several joint boards, except for the Joint Air Transportation Board and the Joint Airborne Troop Board, whose membership served cross-duties on both boards. =  Even though the charters of these joint boards vested them wi