d little concern for the effect that hostile antiaircraft artillery fire might have on strategic bomber missions. Ground fire had not been effective against aircraft in World War I or in the Spanish Civil War. When American heavy bombers began to make daylight strikes against enemy targets in France in the autumn of 1942, however, it suddenly appeared that hostile flak might be more of an obstacle to the bomber mission than enemy fighters. When Col Curtis E. LeMay was en route to England with the 305th Bombardment Group in October, he and his key officers happened to be in Prestwick at the same time as Col Frank A. Armstrong, Jr., who was heading back to Washington. Armstrong had led the first daylight bomber mission to Sotteville-Rouen on 17 August, had flown two additional missions, and was as much of an expert as the fledgling airmen had ever seen. Armstrong told LeMay and his staff that a heavy bomber crew would not be able to survive over a gun-defended target if it maintained a straight course for more than 10 seconds. "This," LeMay recalled, "was pretty discouraging information." Even good peacetime bombardiers could hardly hit a target precisely with such a short run. LeMay knew that his crews would need to fly a straight-in bomb run in order to get enough aiming time, but the question was whether they could survive with such tactics. Using an old ROTC manual on the French 75-millimeter field artillery gun, LeMay worked out a fire problem on the number of rounds that a gun crew would require to hit a target the size of a B-17, sitting still on a hillside at a distance of 25,000 feet. He computed that the gun crew would have to fire 372 rounds. These looked like good odds, and LeMay convinced his group that it would go straight in and make its attack without evasive action. Over Saint-Nazaire on 23 November 1942, with LeMay leading, the 305th encountered intense flak that damaged 6 of the 16 B-17s on the mission (including LeMay’s lead plane), but no planes w