ary service."®  The position of the Navy in regard to ARPA appeared to be somewhat between those of the Army and the Air Force. Secretary of the Navy Thomas S. Gates, Jr., stated that "the Navy’s aim in relation to space can be simply stated: To use space to accomplish naval objectives and to prevent space from being used to the detriment of those objectives."” Vice Adm John T. Hayward, assistant chief of naval operations (research and development), acknowledged that ARPA had "done an excellent job" in the absence of legislation. He also thought that the agency was a worthwhile Department of Defense interface with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. But he did not believe that ARPA should be an operating agency, and he thought that as a policy agency ARPA probably ought to be phased into the Office of the Director of Defense Research and Engineering.”  592  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 614 --- IMPACT OF MISSILES AND SPACE  As early as February 1959 the Air Force officially requested that, in view of the impending completion of research and development, it should be assigned responsibility for the production and operation of the Sentry (Samos) reconnaissance satellite system and of the Midas infrared missile defense alarm system. When he appeared before the Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Aeronautical and Space Sciences on 14 April, however, General Trudeau suggested that a unified space command should be established under the Joint Chiefs of Staff to take over operational employment of vehicles or satellites that were under development by ARPA. General Schriever, on the other hand, urged that "it would be well to make a decision as to which service should do what and then give the responsibilities to that service to develop and bring into being, operationally, the particular system required to provide the service." When developed, operational military space systems would be turned over to existing unified or specified commander