lity of air to come through at lesser and lesser costs is quite clear, quite apparent. You will reach the point in the distant future when you won’t even think of opposing air in the air. ... We'll go back to a counter-artillery work. We'll fight them at the launching site or we won’t fight them.  In an article published in October 1949, Lt Col Harry M. Pike of the Air Command and Staff College faculty frankly questioned whether the United States ought to attempt an air defense effort. "If our enemies send over great numbers of aircraft carrying enough atomic bomb-type weapons to attain a goodly part of their strategic objective’s and if our air defense system is capable of destroying only about ten percent of their planes and probably a lesser percentage of their missiles," Pike asked, "is the expenditure of such an enormous sum of money— probably billions of dollars—for an air defense system feasible and acceptable? Are there perhaps other places for us to put our money in order that the probability of attack might be made more remote?" If military funds were of little or no consideration, Pike would have favored "a mighty defense effort aimed at making this country literally unpenetrable." But, under existing funds limitations, he argued that an air defense system could not "rate a high rung on the priority ladder."*®  285  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 307 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  The notion that the United States might conduct a preventive war against Soviet nuclear capabilities was completely unacceptable to Thomas K. Finletter, who replaced Symington as secretary of the Air Force on 24 April 1950. Speaking to the Air War College on 23 May, Finletter stated bluntly:  I believe that preventive war is not a possible policy for the United States government to carry out at this time. ... Anybody who advocates a preventing war... is simply taking the easiest way and is not willing to face up to the tremendously difficult political and military things w