ed military budget. When Forrestal appeared before the president’s commission, he let it be known that he would be very reluctant to disturb the structure of the fiscal year 1949 military budget, except on the urgent request of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.) The Air Force portion of the national defense budget for fiscal year 1949 allowed the operation of a maximum of 55 combat groups and 17 separate squadrons and provided $700 million for the continued modernization of the combat groups by replacement of their World War II aircraft.  In visualizing the expenditure of the $700 million for new aircraft, Air Force planners committed enough funds in the 1949 budget for the purchase of enough additional jet fighters to equip a total of 13 of the Air Force’s 24 fighter groups with these aircraft..“” However, none of the available jet fighters could escort bombers to far distant targets. Still the Air Force accepted the doctrinal lesson of World War II that an attainment of a preliminary air superiority was necessary in order that surface operations could be undertaken successfully or that decisive bombing of an enemy’s vitals could be accomplished. In July 1947, however, in the United States Strategic Bombing Survey report titled Air Campaigns of the Pacific War, Maj Gen Orvil A. Anderson questioned the air superiority doctrine. "Air superiority is not an end in itself," suggested Anderson. "Operations must be evaluated in terms of the decisiveness of the action and the cost to our own war potential. If the over-all damage inflicted on the enemy significantly outweighs the cost of the operation in terms of manpower, materiel, and production potential, the operation may be strategically sound,"!4 During World War II, the Eighth Air Force had found that the best method for daylight penetrations of Germany was with large bomber formations. In the summer of 1947, however, interceptor tests flown by the ist Fighter Group against B-29s indicated that P-80 pilots had difficulty in