ant that there be clearly expressed guiding principles which are clearly understood by all planners, as well as by all who are charged with the handling of the forces in the field."  Heavily concerned with day-to-day operations that allowed little time for reflective thought, the Air Defense, Bombardment, and Group Support divisions within the Directorate of Military Requirements began to employ different means for the evaluation and preparation of the doctrine that they were expected to  132  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 154 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  provide. In the March 1942 reorganization of the Army Air Forces, the Ground Support Division, headed by Col David M. Schlatter, had superseded the Army Air Support Staff Section that had been jointly manned by the Army General Headquarters and the Air Force Combat Command. Colonel Schlatter inherited avirtually complete draft manual that had been drawn up on the basis of experience with the new air support commands in the Louisiana and Carolina maneuvers of 1941. It was published as War Department Field Manual 31-35, Aviation in Support of Ground Forces, on 9 April 1942. This manual was heavily concerned with organization and had little to say about operations. It provided that the air support commander would function under the Army commander: it stated that an air support command, as one of several air force commands in a theater of operations, was "habitually attached to or supports an army in the theater." Aviation units, moreover, could be "specifically allocated to the support of subordinate ground units." The commander of a supported unit was given the authority to make the final decision as to target priorities: "the most important target at a particular time," the manual stated, "will usually be that target which constitutes the most serious threat to the operations of the supported ground force." At best the air support command would provide a centralized control for observation groups, transport grou