, except for those projects primarily associated with military requirements." 3  During the early months of 1958, proposals were made looking toward the establishment of an international space agency or an American civil space organization. Senator Lyndon B. Johnson called for joint exploration of outer space by the United Nations. Former disarmament assistant Harold E. Stassen advocated a United Nations space development agency that would send the first man into space and the first photographic inspection satellite around the earth. Senator Hubert H. Humphrey proposed that the United States "take the lead in marshaling the talents and resources of the world to unlock the mysteries of outer space in joint research and exploration under the auspices of the United Nations."! Meeting in Washington the National Council of the Federation of American Scientists approved on 3 May 1958 a statement noting the precedent of the Atomic Energy Commission, where under civilian control "both military and civilian uses of atomic energy have prospered in an atmosphere more conducive to scientific progress than that typically available under military direction." Critical "of the failure of the Pentagon leadership to foresee the impact of the first satellites in the popular imagination," the Federation of American Scientists called for the establishment of a civilian space agency in the United States and a united and coordinated international space effort under the authority of the United Nations. "It would be tragic," these scientists said, "if the challenging task of space exploration were carried on in the competitive nationalistic pattern under which it has begun."!° The persons who believed that the Atomic Energy Commission could serve as a model for a national space agency variously recommended that the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 be amended to add a division of outer space development to the Atomic Energy Commission, or that an entirely new commission on outer space be establishe