et and the science of strategic bombing and the development of bombing equipment will keep pace with the defensive missiles used to stop it. The heavy bomber will only go out of existence when a new weapon is invented which will do the job more cheaply and effectively. ... Even when the efficient guided missile of large weight, carrying capacity and extreme range is developed, military flexibility may still demand the existence of manned vehicles capable of delivering tremendous blows on spots inaccessible to rocket fire ..., or to conduct operations against targets of opportunity. No one weapon will meet all the requirements of modern warfare, and it can be safely assumed that warfare in the future will become even more complex.  When he appeared before the House Subcommittee on Appropriations on 6 March 1947, Lt Gen Ira C. Eaker, deputy commanding general of the Army Air Forces, emphasized the tremendous expense of preparing for an early  481  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 503 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  "push-button warfare" capability. Eaker suggested that the day may come when the long-range guided missile would replace the conventional very heavy bomber. With unlimited funds and resources in a development effort equivalent to that which had produced the atomic bomb, Eaker estimated that a 5,000-mile-range guided missile could be developed in five years. "Ten to fifteen years from now, by working hard and with at least a quarter of a billion dollars annually for experimentation in that field alone," Eaker estimated, "we can produce a rocket of 5,000-mile range. The prototype . . . will probably cost 200 million each, and individual rockets of that size and type thereafter may cost as much as 7 million.""We cannot, therefore," Eaker concluded, "abandon the development of the very long-range very-heavy bomber as a primary weapon of our long-range striking force but we should, as a wise precaution, spend the necessary experimental funds to insure that we