ed with his plans for the organization of the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA). With Eisenhower’s approval, funds for ARPA research and development were included in the fiscal year 1959 defense budget submitted to Congress in January 1958. Without awaiting the new fiscal year, McElroy established ARPA effective on 7 February 1958; Congress soon authorized him to transfer $10 million from the military budget to the new agency. Under its charter ARPA was authorized to direct such research and development projects as the secretary assigned to it, to arrange for the performance of work by other governmental agencies including the military services, to enter contracts with individuals or institutions, and to acquire test facilities and equipment as approved by the secretary of defense.” Appointed director of ARPA, Roy W. Johnson secured personnel from the Institute of Defense Analysis, including Dr Herbert F. York, who became ARPA’s chief scientist on 18 March. As a matter of policy, Johnson sought to keep the ARPA staff small (not more than 100 people including clerks), to avoid acquiring an in-house research and development capability, and determined not to pursue any  590  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 612 --- IMPACT OF MISSILES AND SPACE  system beyond research and development. His main objective was to provide "a small management staff designed to work with and through the military departments in developing forward-looking programs." He viewed ARPA as an agency that could make for "painless" unification in the field of space technology.®?  At its establishment in February 1958, ARPA was given a unique position of great potential power in the Department of Defense and it appeared for a time that ARPA might become a fourth military service. McElroy justified ARPA’s continuation as "an operating element paralleling the research and engineering organizations of the military departments," but Johnson’s self-limiting policies did not permit this. Johnson pe