iterature projects, but the Air Service did not have an Air Service board. In the absence of such an agency, the Air Service Training and War Plans Division assigned training literature projects to the various schools and units best qualified for each particular project.  Mgj William Sherman attempted to deal with many of these issues during 1921 while writing a text on air tactics for the Air Service Field Officers School. In this text, Sherman accepted the prevailing belief that the success or the failure of the infantry determined the success or failure of an army, but he maintained that this had not always been true in the past and might not be true in the future. He also believed that the Army aviation was comprised of two portions: air-service aviation was an auxiliary of the ground forces, while air-force aviation (pursuit, bombardment, and attack aircraft) constituted a true arm. Sherman suggested that the air force portion of army aviation would support the infantry in the same manner that the Navy did—by seeking out its doctrine in the element in which it operated. The first duty of the air force was "to gain and hold control of the air, by seeking out and destroying the hostile air force, wherever it may be found." Although he did not believe that control of the air could ever be completed, Sherman believed that "the backbone of the air forces on which the whole plan of  40  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 62 --- THROUGH WORLD WARI  employment must be hung is pursuit." Having established control of the air, the mission of the air force was "to destroy the most important enemy forces on the surface of the land or sea.'"”” During 1922 Sherman’s manuscript on air tactics was revised into manual form; early in 1923 it was issued in preliminary form for use in the Air Service as Training Regulation No. 440-15, Fundamental Principles for the Employment of the Air Service. m  While the doctrinal project was in progress, General Patrick gave close at