mple reason we knew already their ideas would not coincide with ours with reference to reductions."  Beginning in mid-February 1960, Estes assembled the some 100 technicians who had been working upon separate phases of air defense systems, and the group went into the exact technical status of every single component of the air defense system, when the component could become operational, and how much it would cost. The group attempted to project an air defense system that would be effective against a combined missile-bomber threat at the earliest possible time with a minimum expenditure of dollars. The Estes group completed its work in late February 1960, after which Estes briefed the Air Force, the North American Air Defense Command, and the Air Defense Command on the study group’s recommend actions.”*! While the Estes group was at work, General LeMay established another board of general officers to make a continuous evaluation of Bomarc. This evaluation board made reports in November 1959 and January 1960. Working independently, another ad hoc panel of scientists provided evaluations of the Bomarc B to the secretary of defense.  Since evaluations of air defense requirements were under way within Department of Defense, the fiscal year 1961 departmental budget submitted to Congress in January 1960 represented interim changes recommended by the six-month-old master air defense plan. The Air Force desired to reduce air defense wings from the 27 in being on 30 June 1959 to 23 on 30 June 1960 and to 20 on 30 June 1961. By 30 June 1960, four Bomarc squadrons were to be operational and it was planned that eight Bomarc squadrons would be in operation by 30 June 1961. Altogether the Air Force wanted to bring 16 Bomarc squadrons into the air defense inventory, SAGE was programmed for eight supercombat centers and 22 direction centers.~~ Seaborne extensions of the DEW line—picket ships and "Texas towers"— would be eliminated, but airborne control and warning aircraft would cont