ean on by any people who are determined to protect their independence against outside aggression." In explaining this speech, Acheson later maintained that he had said exactly what he meant to say. "Now, I think I said what I tried to say very clearly," he stated,  that the United States had certain points which were a defensive perimeter. At those points United States troops were stationed; there they would stay and there they would fight. In regard to other areas, I said nobody can guarantee that; but what we can say is that if people will stand up and fight for their own independence, their own country, the guaranties under the United Nations have never proved a weak reed before, and they won't in the future.  Although the strategic estimates included in NSC-68 reasoned that the Soviets would not initiate hostilities— not even a small war that might flare into all-out war — until they could stockpile atomic weapons, the Kremlin determined to take advantage of what appeared to be a strategic opportunity in East Asia. The Soviets apparently believed that their puppet forces from North Korea could easily overrun the defenses of the Republic of Korea, without necessitating an overt employment of either Soviet or Chinese Communist forces. Soviet strategy seems to have discounted any serious military response by the United States to an invasion of South Korea, and it evidently did not believe that the United Nations Security Council could muster any effective opposition. The Soviets may have been relatively sure of the latter assessment, because since January 1950 Jacob Malik,  292  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 314 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  the Soviet delegate who could have wielded his country’s veto, had been boycotting the Security Council. This assessment of Soviet strategy was arrived at by Rand associate Allen S. Whiting, after a careful study of admittedly fragmentary evidence.® As early as February 1951, however, Alexander de Seversky suggeste