e obvious that an attack upon us or our allies is imminent, we can launch an attack before the aggressor has hit us or our allies. This is an element of deterrence which the United States should not deny itself. No other form of deterrence can be fully relied upon."42 When final action was completed in July 1960, Congress voted $41.4 billion for defense, approximately $500 million more than President Eisenhower had requested. Most of the additional funds were allocated to the Atlas, Minuteman, Polaris, and the B-70 programs; and the total fund was to be divided to include $9.6 billion for the Army, $11.8 billion for the Navy, and $18.9 for the Air Force.  Despite verbal statements by Secretary Gates, the Department of Defense budget for fiscal year 1961 did not clearly implement either a counterforce or a finite deterrence concept but actually augmented both strategic and limited war forces. It did not provide the first-strike strategic force that the Air Force considered necessary to the counterforce strategy. The compromise pleased neither side of the strategic controversy, and the great debate on strategy continued  627  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 649 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  to brew. "Our national policy at this writing," Herman Kahn observed in 1960, "seems to be drifting (mostly as a result of decisions evaded or decided for relatively minor technical reasons) toward accepting a strategy between finite deterrence or counterforce as insurance.""” Strausz-Hupe, Kintner, and Possony described the official United States position as being one of "win strike second" counterforce, but an Air Force Magazine reviewer of their book commented: "We do not now have the capability to fight such a war even though this strategy is the most desirable. ... We lack the forces needed to replace the so-called ‘massive retaliation’ policy." On the other hand, the Naval Warfare Analysis Group issued a "Résumé of Major Strategic Considerations" on 17 October 1