s Hawks series planes. However, in 1928 the Air Corps began to buy Boeing P-12F biplanes—which had a top speed of 194 miles an hour—as the standard pursuit planes.  Since observation planes had higher priority, the Air Corps was not permitted to purchase any new bombers in the first year of its augmentation. In May 1928 Maj Hugh J. Knerr, the commander of the 2d Bombardment Group (who was additionally named as chairman of a special Air Corps Bombardment Board), recommended the development of a light and fast day bomber and a heavier and  63  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 85 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  longer range night bomber. This proposal was soon rejected when the War Department insisted that a twin-engine observation plane be developed and that provision be made for its modification as a bomber. In March 1930 the Air Corps Tactical School recommended that night bombing was inefficient and proposed that light and heavy bombers should be built solely for day operations. The school believed that speed and armament could protect a day bomber. As a result of circular design proposals in 1930, the Air Corps issued procurement orders for both Boeing B-9 and Martin B-10 aircraft. Built in 1931, the Boeing B-9 was a twin-engine monoplane that bore a superficial resemblance to the later B-17. However, the B-9 subsequently developed a fuselage vibration that made it unacceptable to buy in quantity. The Martin B-10, on the other hand, was to be the first of the modern bombers. First flown in early 1932, this all metal monoplane had front and rear machine-gun turrets, a top speed of 212 miles an hour, and a service ceiling of 21,000 feet. -  At the Air Corps Tactical School the increasing capabilities of military aircraft opened new vistas of air power that visionary instructors desired to exploit. After completing the school in 1928 and 1929, Capt Robert Olds and Lt Kenneth N. Walker remained on the faculty as instructors in bombardment aviation. Olds had assiste