nletter had in mind both the Strategic Air Command and the atomic air units of the Tactical Air Command. Following this concept, he would soon advocate the consolidation of the whole atomic air potential under a single command that he proposed to call the strategic-tactical air command (STAC). In place of the old counter-industry concept for strategic air power, he urged acceptance of a front-to-rear attack concept that would make all enemy targets — from the front lines through communications and supply lines, airfields, and storage back to the sources of production and government direction—the objective of atomic air strikes. In November 1953 Finletter tentatively suggested that Navy atomic aircraft might be included in the nation’s strategic air arm. But by August 1954 he had decided that "the whole responsibility for the Atomic-Air mission should be placed on the Air Force’s STAC." He reasoned that aircraft carriers would be an increasingly vulnerable and expensive weapon system in a time of plentiful hydrogen bombs. Finletter also opposed the assignment of any "super priority" to air defense, and, because it lacked "powerful deterrent value," he recommended that air defense be put in a second priority immediately after the strategic-tactical air command.24  In his valedictory thoughts, Finletter attached priority importance to strategic air and air defense but charged that "the truth of the matter is that .. . both strategic air and air defense are being treated in the same fashion— namely they are both being neglected in favor of lower priority forces." While the requirements for air defense had been extensively studied, no similar attention had been focused on the future requirements of the Strategic Air Command. "My main point about the strategic air arm," he said, "is this: it is neglected." Looking to 1955, when the Soviets would have an absolute air atomic capability, the Strategic Air Command would need to be widely dispersed at many operational bases an