dvance of an anticipated attack, but a preemptive attack could be made hours or even minutes before the launching of a hostile strike.2”3 If the United States strategic force had the ability to make an almost instantaneous reaction, the United States, moreover, would be able to make strikes while enemy aerospace vehicles were en route to their targets but before they reached their assigned targets.’  The Air Force leaders found it difficult to determine what the exact size of a minimum deterrent force would be, but they were sure that it would not be a small aggregation of nuclear missiles capable only of destroying Soviet cities. "People sometimes ask me," said General Power,  what I think the minimum deterrent force is. They ask as though it were a package that one could get at the local store and buy off the shelf with a price tag on it... .I tell these people, I don’t know what the minimum deterrent is, and what is more, there is nobody in this world who knows... . If anybody tells you they know what the minimum deterrent is, tell them for me that they are liars. The closest to one man who would know what the minimum deterrent is, would be Mr. Khrushchev, and frankly I don’t think he knows from 1 week to another. He might be willing to absorb more punishment next week than he wants to absorb today.  Power also pointed out that no one should assume that what would deter the United States would deter the Soviet bloc. The United States had sustained some  622  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 644 --- IMPACT OF MISSILES AND SPACE  600,000 casualties in its Civil War; the Soviet Union had killed an estimated 9,000,000 people in the Revolution and had lost some 20,000,000 people in World War II; while the Chinese Communists were said to have "liquidated" as many as 20,000,000 to 30,000,000 persons in their revolutionary effort. Americans and Communists, thus, attached different values to human life. As for the overkill charge, Power estimated that the Strategic Ai