ival of the atomic-capable 49th Air Division in England on 5 June 1952 added realism to the SHAPE mission. "We now had," said Maj Gen Dean C. Strother, commander of the 4th Allied Tactical Air Force in Central Europe, "the beginnings of a real tactical offensive capability. Employed with SAC’s growing potential in one indivisible air effort, sense could now be made of the tactical situation.""~ The successful detonation of a thermonuclear test device in Operation Ivy on 1 November 1952 promised an almost incalculable increase in strategic bombing power. "We need no longer to argue," pointed out Bernard Brodie, "whether the conduct of war is an art or a science —in the future it will be neither. The art or science will come only in finding out . . . what not to hit."  On 28 April 1952 United Nations truce negotiators in Korea offered a proposal for resolving all disputed questions on the agenda, and, when the Communists refused the solutions, the truce negotiations were at a complete impasse. On this same day in Washington, President Truman announced the appointment of Gen Mark W. Clark as commander in chief, United Nations Command-Far East  340  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 362 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  Command, in place of General Ridgway who became supreme allied commander, Europe. When he reached Tokyo on 12 May 1952, Clark already believed that "only through forceful action could the Communists be made to agree to an armistice the United States considered honorable." With approval from Clark and from the Joint Chiefs, the Far East Air Forces and the Naval Forces Far East, in a four-day action beginning on 23 June, launched a campaign of applying pressure through the air that successfully neutralized North Korea’s hydroelectric generating plants. Beginning in July 1952, the United Nations air pressure operations were related closely to the state of the truce negotiations at Panmunjom and, when these were suspended, to diplomatic soundings of Sin