art of larger B-29 formations or as individual aircraft that would strike at night or under cover of bad weather.  "Destruction is just around the corner for any future aggressor against the United States. Quick retaliation will be our answer in the form of an aerial knock-out delivered by the Strategic Air Command." A public relations release thus explained the Strategic Air Command’s concept of employment in August 1946.°” As a matter of fact, however, the strategic striking force was very weak. The Strategic Air Command had the only two operational groups in the United States that were fully combat ready; SAC did not expect to have a total of four Be groups and two long-range fighter groups operational before February 1947,120 Thus, the Army Air Forces was unable to measure up to its first postwar crisis, which occurred in August 1946, when two American C-47s were shot down by Communist pilots over Yugoslavia and the State Department proposed an immediate and aggressive use of air power against that country. Norstad had to point out that the Air Force was too weak to risk war. In place of the show of force over Yugoslavia, Assistant Secretary of War for Air W. Stuart Symington proposed an around-the-world B-29 flight, only to have this turned down by the State Department. In November, however, the Strategic Air Command was suddenly directed to send six B-29s to Europe. Led by Col James C. Selser, Jr., these planes left the 43d Bombardment Group’s base at Davis-Monthan Field, Arizona, on 13 November 1946, made the trans-Atlantic crossing, and landed safely at Frankfurt, Germany, despite low ceilings and half-mile visibility. In a 12-day stay in Europe, the B-29s made flights along the borders of Soviet-occupied territory and surveyed airfields to determine their suitability for B-29 operations.!7!  Problems of Aircraft Procurement  Besides the explosive demobilization of its strength, the Army Air Forces found it impossible to procure new aircraft that were needed