he principal task of the United Nations air forces in the winter of 1950-51 was to prevent the Chinese armies from enveloping the retreating United Nations ground forces. Air interdiction strikes and concentrated close air support retarded the Communist advance, worked heavy destruction on enemy personnel and materiel, and enabled the friendly ground troops to withdraw to defense lines in South Korea. If the Chinese Communist air force had been able to enter combat over the ground battle area, the story might have been different. However, the Far East Air Forces maintained local air superiority by a combination of combat air patrols and the threat of potential striking power. Rushed into combat in Korea, the F-86 Sabre fighter proved able to overcome Soviet MiG-15 planes in air-to-air combat. "The F-86 saved us in Korea," Gen Nathan F. Twining stated later. "If we had not had the top day fighter, those MiGs would have come down and ruined us over there, but the day fighter licked them." While United Nations airmen were not permitted to violate the Manchurian sanctuary, Vandenberg secured acceptance of one important proviso to the restriction. In the spring of 1951, the United States delegation in the United Nations passed the word that if the Reds launched massed air attacks against  302  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 324 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  United Nations forces in Korea, American airmen would destroy the airfields from which such attacks originated. Rather than jeopardize their sanctuary, the Communists attempted to build airfields within North Korea. But each time one of these airfields neared operational status, B-29s successfully neutralized it. The Communist air commander, Weyland said, was forced to learn "the basic lesson that an air force cannot be reconstituted or developed in an area where his foe has won air supremacy."  "In a long-term war," Weyland remarked on 28 December 1950, "tactical air power will contribute more to the succ