counteroffensive weapons which would seek out and destroy the enemy’s ability to manufacture the articles for waging war." Appearing before a Senate committee on 18 October 1945, Arnold said:  . The first essential of air power necessary for peace and security is the preeminence in research. ... We must remember at all times that the degree of national security rapidly declines when reliance is placed on the quantity of existing equipment instead of its quality. ... We must count on scientific advances requiring us to replace about one-fifth of existing Air Forces equipment each year and we must be sure that these additions  205  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 227 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  are the most advanced in the whole world. To this end the best scientific talents of the country must be mobilized continuously and without delay.  Air officers had a good appreciation of the importance of research and development, but they were much less sure as to how to organize for it. At this juncture, no one apparently suggested that research and development in air materiel should be divided from procurement and production. Based on a postulate that tactical research and proof testing ought to be separate from the development function, the AAF Board recommended on 29 April 1944 that the wartime relationship of the AAF Board, the AAF Tactical Center, the AAF Proving Ground Command, and the Air Materiel Command ought to continue unchanged in the postwar air force.”? In September 1945 Brig Gen Eugene L. Eubank recommended that if the AAF Board were made directly responsible to the highest command level and augmented with highly qualified officers it would be "capable of solving problems of any magnitude related to Air Force development, tactics, and techniques."”! Other authorities regarded the AAF Board as being only one of several important research and analysis agencies. Col Barton W. Leach, chief of the Operations Analysis Division, for example, suggested