ede one of the enumerated major commands. The chief of staff would supervise other portions of the Air Force. Apparently because of a high degree of importance attached to the military justice function, the act provided for the appointment of an Air Force judge advocate general by the president for a four-year term. Based upon a Senate amendment, the act also provided that the secretary of the Air Force would charge the under secretary or an assistant secretary to supervise all activities of the reserve components of the Air Force. The Air Force was generally satisfied with the Air Force Organization Act, but there were reports that some commands which had not been recognized as major commands did not like the implication that they must be minor commands. The Tactical Air Command viewed the act as a milestone in its struggle for status and recognition. Representative Vinson also commented that the organization act obviously would result in greater emphasis being placed on the tactical air mission within the Air Force.  Air Buildup: 95-Wing Program  While the Air Force was reorganizing in 1950 and 1951 to meet worldwide commitments, Secretary Finletter and General Vandenberg confronted the problem of expanding its strength. Based on the requirements noted in NSC-68, the expansion of the Air Force was initially undertaken in context with the expansion of all of the military services. Early in July 1950 the Joint Chiefs of Staff approved the force compositions it thought were necessary to support the additional requirements of the Korean fighting and to commence a limited augmentation of American armed forces. On 24 July, President Truman offered a supplemental estimate of appropriations required for this purpose. As enacted on 27 September, the First Supplemental Appropriation Act of 1951 made $11.7 billion available to the Department of Defense in addition to the $13.3 billion carried in the Defense Appropriation Act of 1951. Finletter estimated that only  316  Googl