riking force on the continent. On 15 January 1940, however, the British Air Ministry put all this aviation under the commander, British air forces in France, who was directed to use the whole force to the best possible effect in support of the allied armies as a whole. From Paris, Colonel Kenney reported that captive observation balloons were completely impracticable, as were slow and vulnerable observation planes.!*  As time passed, the German victories over British and French forces in Holland, Belgium, and northern France caused American air leaders to increase rather than to diminish their requirements for heavy bombers. On 12 June 1940 General Emmons advised Arnold that Great Britain had made a serious mistake in building a defensive air force consisting largely of interceptor fighters and light reconnaissance bombers. Emmons suggested that if the Royal Air Force had a stronger bomber force it could have effected heavy destruction on the German troop and supply columns which had jammed the roadways leading toward Dunkirk. He recommended that the United States must materially increase its long-range bomber force.!4° On 4 June 1940 Brig Gen J. E. Chaney, commander of the new Air Defense Command at Mitchel Field, in a letter to General Marshall, argued that the United States must develop a long-range bomber force that could carry destruction to Germany. Chaney believed that a huge force of bombers, capable of taking the war to Berlin, would prove to be the only effective deterrent to German aggression and would permit operations against the Luftwaffe and any attempt Hitler might make to establish bases in or near the Western Hemisphere. Chaney's letter was endorsed by both Andrews and Arnold.47  These Air Corps assessments had hardly been put on paper before the Luftwaffe launched the Battle of Britain and began a phase of air combat that fostered still  98  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 120 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  more thinking. As a special obs