ir Transport Command, and the Air Training Command continued in being when the War Department reorganization was announced on 14 May 1946.°? still seeking to distinguish between the air transport and the troop carrier mission, the Army Air Forces stated the policy that the Air Transport Command would be responsible for air transport service between the United States and the overseas theaters and among the overseas theaters. The troop carrier units had to be prepared for airborne assault and for airlanded operations and for the performance of intratheater airlift at the discretion of the theater commanders.*?  Continuing Thinking about Research and Development  Unlike the organization of the combat functions, which progressed rapidly toward a functional alignment of responsibilities, the establishment of a framework for air research and development was marked by numerous changes in plans. In order to "shake down" for peacetime operations, Headquarters Army Air Forces was reorganized on 15 September 1945 with five assistant chiefs of Air Staff: ACAS-1 (Personnel), ACAS-2 (Intelligence), ACAS-3 (Training and Operations), ACAS-4 (Supply), and ACAS-S (Plans). Research and development functions, which had been handled by Organization, Commitments, and  208  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 230 --- AF IN NATIONAL DEFENSE  Requirements, passed to ACAS-3.™4 In the last weeks before he retired, General Arnold spent most of his time thinking about the future development of the Air Force. At the advice of Dr Edward L. Bowles, Arnold, on 5 December 1945, directed the establishment of a deputy chief of air staff, research and development. Headed by Maj Gen Curtis E. LeMay, the new Air Staff office was charged to prepare the overall research and development program for the Air Force and to concern itself with policy matters affecting the research and development program. The Air Materiel Command would continue as the field agency responsible for research and developmen