osition that in the absence of air supremacy the initiative passed to the enemy by citing the success of the German army in launching its Ardennes offensive without possessing air superiority. As a result of the debate, the several theaters of operations were compelled to adopt their own techniques for air-ground cooperation. More than a year had passed before the War Department G-3 succeeded in patching together compromises that enabled it to issue definitions of doctrine required in preparation for the invasion of Japan. On 20 April 1945 the War Department published Training Circular 17, Air-Ground Liaison, and on 19 June 1945 it released Training Circular 30, Tactical Air Command: Organization and Employment. In yet another project, the AAF Board required a long period to coordinate the effort with interested parties. On  141  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 163 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  11 February 1944, the board began a manual entitled "Tactical Doctrine of Troo Carrier Aviation" but did not complete the text in final form until 21 August 1945.  Official Evaluations of Air Operations  Under the leadership of General Eubank, the Army Air Forces Board became a respected and valuable agency for making evaluations and devising solutions to far-reaching problems encountered in the theaters of operations. But the board never attained the authority to recommend air policy to General Arnold to the same degree that the Navy General Board could influence the chief of naval operations. As World War II progressed, moreover, other agencies began to undertake a large part of the work that might have fallen within the province of a more powerful AAF Board.  A new level of bureaucracy slowly emerged in the United States to perform the functions of operations analysis, a development which paralleled the British experience. Having recognized the close relationship between scientific development and warfare during the 1930s, the Royal Air Force (RAF) had gotten