tence). The Air War Plans Division proposed that coordinate ground, air, and naval services be created, with unity of command to be secured by acommon head of all armed services who would report directly to the president and would have a small staff of ground, air, naval, production and supply, and political and economic warfare representatives. The Air War Plans Division urged that such an organization would provide each service with a desired freedom of action and at the same time ensure unity of command.  Although the Air War Plans Division had forcefully asserted prevalent air doctrines, the United States was not going to adopt an undiluted air strategy nor would the air force attain full-fledged autonomy. Meeting in Washington between 22 December 1941 and 14 January 1942, the Anglo-American Combined Chiefs of Staff Arcadia conference did not favor such an overriding priority as AWPD-4 would have accorded to aircraft production but instead favored a victory program, calling for increases of air, land, and naval forces and for the allocation of resources for the manufacture of munitions in a sequence of limited schedules geared to successively approved operations. The combined staff planners accordingly accepted AWPD-1 with some modifications rather than AWPD-4. As a result of agreements with the British, Secretary of Defense Henry L. Stimson on 19 January  128  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 150 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  1942 authorized the Army Air Forces to expand during 1942 to a total of 115 groups, including 34 heavy bomber, 12 medium bomber, 10 light bomber, 31 pursuit, 12 transport, and 16 observation groups.  The Arcadia conference also established the mechanism for directing the Anglo-American war effort and a precedent looking toward unified command of combined forces in theaters of operations. From his experience in World War I in France, General George C. Marshall held a conviction that "there must be one man in command of the entire theater—ai