requirements. When he appeared before the Symington committee in June 1956, Radford speculated that a show of force, coupled with a threat of nuclear retaliation, would have deterred the Communists’ aggression in Korea. "I am quite certain," he said, "if we had had one battalion or even a company, on the 38th parallel in Korea flying the American flag . . . I don’t think the Communists would have attacked because they would have known that if they overran this one United States combat unit, certainly the United States would come in." Radford hastily added: "This visible deterrent may be obtained with very small forces."!* In J uly 1956, Radford proposed to the Joint Chiefs of Staff that military manpower be cut, chiefly by reducing Army deployments in Europe and Asia to small atomic task forces and by greatly reducing Army strength in the United States. General Taylor strongly opposed these proposals at a Joint Chiefs of Staff meeting on 9 July. Within a week, Radford’s position was published in substance in the New York Times. Adverse international reactions led to the withdrawal of Radford’s plan; Secretary Wilson soon declared that no responsible person had ever advocated the reduction and withdrawal of forces contained in the so-called Radford plan.  When General Twining appeared before the Symington committee in June 1956, he strongly urged that the United States commit itself to a new strategy that would place prime reliance on nuclear weapons for limited as well as general warfare. "We cannot afford," he said, "to keep in our Armed Force conventional forces for the old type of warfare plus those for atomic warfare. We have got to make up our minds that we have to go one way or the other." By accepting a new strategy built around the use of atomic weapons, the United States would be able to reduce its forces considerably. Such a new strategy, Twining stated, would represent "the only way we can provide the forces for the country within a  458  File: --- futrel