. Based in part upon studies conducted in OC&R and at the AAF Board, Arnold decided on 5 December 1945 that the Army Air Forces would retain the Air Transport Command to support the strategic air forces and would keep troop carrier aviation as a part of the tactical air forces.  179  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 201 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  General Arnold’s Final Word  In his final report to the secretary of war on 12 November 1945, General Arnold recalled the course of the successful air war that had been waged against the Axis. While he expressed satisfaction, he warned against complacency. "National safety," Arnold emphasized,  would be endangered by an Air Force whose doctrines and techniques are tied solely to the equipment and processes of the moment. Present equipment is but a step in progress, and any Air Force which does not keep its doctrines ahead of its equipment, and its vision far into the future, can only delude the nation into a false sense of security. ... The basic planning, development, organization and training of the Air Force must be well rounded, covering every modern means of waging air war, and the techniques of employing such means must be continuously developed and kept up to date. The Air Force doctrines likewise must be flexible at all times and entirely uninhibited by tradition.  NOTES  1, Report of the commanding general of the Army Air Forces to the secretary of war, 4 January 1944, 2; Henry A. Arnold, Global Mission (New York: Harper & Bros., 1949), 149.  2. Air War Plans Division-4 (AWPD-4), Air Estimate of the Situation and Recommendations for the Conduct of the War, 15 December 1941.  3. Ibid.  4. Mark S. Watson, Chief of Staff: Prewar Plans and Preparations, US Army in World War II (Washington, D.C.: Office of the Chief of Military History, Department of the Army, 1950), 295-96; Chase C. Mooney, Organization of the Army Air Arm, 1935-1945, USAF historical study 10 (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: USAF Historical Division