"boondoggling research," Wilson told newsmen on 6 June 1955 that he considered the military research and development effort to be fully adequate. Speaking in his usual candid fashion, he went on to describe research and development as like drilling for oil. "The smart people in the oil business," he said, "try to drill their holes in a likely place, so the money that is given to the Defense Department, I like to see spent in an area... of some use to us. And maybe some other place in the nation’s budget could go the money for fundamental research, I don’t know. I don’t care what happens to some of the minor things."  Air Force leaders shared von Braun’s belief that the development of missiles would provide the booster capability needed to place satellite weapon systems in orbit. In an address in San Diego in February 1957, General Schriever stated that "about 90 percent of the developments in the ballistic-missile program can be applied to advancing in space, satellites and other vehicles." Recalling this address somewhat later, Schriever remarked: "From a technological standpoint, it is, I think, a normal transition to step from these ballistic missiles into satellites, moon rockets, going to planets." "310 General White also conceived that "missiles are but  545  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 567 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  one step in the evolution from manned high-performance aircraft to true manned spacecraft; and, in the forces structure of the future . . . we will have all three systems."*"! One of the reasons that the Air Force desired to develop the rigid structured Titan as an alternate to the Atlas was a belief that the more sophisticated Titan would be the "prime vehicle . . . for getting large vehicles and apparatus into outer space." Except for certain "long-haired" research and development men, however, General Irvine suggested in December 1957 that there was an insufficient awareness that the ballistic missile was "only a short step