concentrated to meet naval situations.""» Air Corps officers protested that the agreement gave the mission of coastal frontier air patrol to the Navy and permitted it to maintain as many shore bases and patrol planes as it deemed necessary in peacetime as well as wartime. The Navy apparently wanted to circumscribe the Army air mission still further. In a presentation to the Federal Aviation Commission in November 1934, the Navy urged that  the Army should develop and build those types of airplanes required by the Army to fulfill its mission in land operations. The Navy should develop and build those types of airplanes required by the Navy in its operation over the sea or for operation from fleet air bases or naval stations. The Army should have paramount interest over the land and the Navy over the sea. Neither service should build or operate planes intended to duplicate the functions of the other.  76  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 98 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  At an assemblage of naval officers at San Diego on 14 June 1935, Adm W. H. Standley, chief of naval operations, stated that the Navy was going to build up a striking force of 1,000 aircraft.”  General MacArthur, convinced by the Baker and Howell hearings that the Army ought to arrive at a united front on the subject of aviation, directed that a statement of facts, principles, and doctrines relating to the Army Air Corps should be prepared. In the past the Air Service and the Air Corps had been permitted to initiate such work, but now the initial task was undertaken by the War Department General Staff. As a "sighting shot" the War Plans Division (WPD) drew up a draft revision of War Department Training Regulation 440-15, Employment of the Air Forces of the Army, and General Kilbourne circulated the draft paper for criticism. As written the WPD draft asserted that the "land campaign and battle" was "the decisive factor in war." While it noted that air force action would be intensive at the begin