g "air and space," had come into being, and aerospace power was its manifestation. The Air Force was the military agency predominantly responsible for aerospace doctrine just as in the past it had been responsible for air power doctrine. In aerospace the Air Force could not expect to enjoy the situation earlier referred to as a desired dominant position through control of the air. Instead, aerospace power would desirably possess "the capability to exercise the initiative in space: its purpose would be to operate in space and maintain control in space, not of space." Maintaining general supremacy in aerospace would be a desirable function quite similar to the function of gaining and maintaining general air supremacy that was assigned to the Air Force by law. The Air Policy Branch also suggested that the new doctrine should include the statement: "The positioning of aerospace power geographically and/or astronautically may have dominating significance in peace or war."  The concept of aerospace caught on rapidly within the Air Force. In an article published in August 1958, General Whiter remarked that Soviet air power was being rapidly expanded into aerospace power. 1 When he appeared before the House Committee on Science and Astronautics on 3 February 1959, White stressed the word aerospace throughout his prepared statement, and then defined it by stating:  553  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 575 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  The Air Force has operated throughout its relatively short history in the sensible atmosphere around the earth. Recent developments have allowed us to extend our operations further away from the earth, approaching the environment popularly referred to as space. Since there is no dividing line, no natural barrier separating these two areas, there can be no operational boundary between them. Thus air and space comprise a single continuous operational field in which the Air Force must continue to function. This area is areospace. . .