ttee generally endorsed the recommendations of the Ridenour group; Gen George C. Kenney, now the commander of the Air University, added a strong personal approval to the report of the Air University committee. "As long as we remain ahead of any possible opponent technically," he wrote, "we could not lose a war; but if we once fall behind technically, it is difficult to see how we could win a war of the future."  In Washington on 2 December 1949, a conference headed by Lt Gen K. B. Wolfe, deputy chief of staff, the Air Materiel Command —with representatives from the Air Staff, Air Materiel Command, and the Air University — reviewed the Ridenour and Air University reports on research and development and recommended that General Vandenberg implement the philosophy contained in them. The conference noted that Vandenberg had four deputies who were responsible for the Air Force of today and suggested that it would be logical to establish a fifth deputy chief of staff for development who would be responsible for the Air Force of the future. The conference also recommended that the Air Force accept reductions in its combat force in being as were necessary to support the establishment of a separate air research and development command. By implication, the Wolfe group did not accept the unorthodox Ridenour recommendation that the deputy chief of staff for development should also command the separate air research and development command. With approval from Vandenberg, the Office of Deputy Chief of Staff, Development was established on 23 January 1950; Maj Gen Gordon P. Saville assumed the position as deputy chief. The new office was provided with two directorates: Requirements, and Research and Development.  With the understanding that its growth would be evolutionary through a gradual assumption of research and development functions and facilities from the Air Materiel Command, the Air Research and Development Command (ARDC) was established under Maj Gen David M. Schlatter in