rvice, Night Bombardment Section, was opened in England to superintend the equipment and training of a night-bomber force, but none of the expected Handley-Page aircraft became available before the Armistice. A single US night-bomber squadron, equipped with improvised DH-4B and old Farman FE-2B aircraft, was committed to the front on 9 November 1918. Looking backward at the failure of the strategical aviation program, Colonel Gorrell observed that "entirely too much optimism was felt for the American Production Program" and that "the Air Service failed to secure the approval of the General Staff of its plans for the employment of this aviation and consequently suffered from the fact that its plans for the use of the Strategical Air Service were not synchronized properly . . . with the ideas of GHQ."””  America’s Wartime Aviation Accomplishments  In view of the divided War Department authority for training and operations and for aircraft production, it was not remarkable that US air unit programs were subject to frequent revision during the course of World War I. In August 1917 the Aviation Section secured approval for a program including 345 combat squadrons, of which 263 were intended for use in Europe by June 1918. Because of lagging aircraft production early in 1918, however, the War Department approved a program of 120 combat squadrons to be at the Western Front by January 1919. In August 1918 the War Department and General Pershing finally agreed on a program calling for 202 squadrons to be at the front by July 1919. This force would  26  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 48 --- THROUGH WORLD WARI  have included 60 pursuit, 49 corps observation, 52 army observation, 14 day-bombing, and 27 night-bombing squadrons, plus 133 balloon observation companies. Since aircraft production was beginning to achieve success late in 1918, it appeared probable that this program objective could have been met had the war continued.*? When hostilities ended on 11 Novem