t Strangle was a poorly conceived name because it gave critics who did not understand the real objective of the railway interdiction a vehicle for proclaiming its failure. He insisted, however, that the railway campaign "was an unqualified success in achieving its stated purpose, which was to deny the enemy the capability to launch and sustain an offensive.'2 "No one can be foolish enough," stated Colonel Tipton, "to claim 100 percent effectiveness for any interdiction effort; to freeze all movement within complex areas of thousands of square miles is impossible." He, nevertheless, observed, "We can conclude that the unique features of the Korean operation have not changed the concept of air operations in the interdiction tas Seis  With regard to close support by the Air Force of Army troops, Gen Maxwell D. Taylor stated, "I would first say that dissatisfaction would not apply to the attitude shown by the Air Force in Korea. I was never more loyally supported by anyone, even by my own people, than by the Fifth Air Force when I commanded the Eighth Army." Recognizing that the outnumbered United Nations ground forces in Korea never possessed a proper amount of organic artillery, Weyland noted that "FEAF and Fifth Air Force leaned over backward to provide more than adequate close air support."2"8 But the final report of the Far East Air Forces, nevertheless, warned: "Because FEAF provided UNC ground forces lavish close air support in Korea is no reason to assume this condition will exist in future wars." In a future conflict the fighter-bomber forces would be hard put to attain air superiority and attaining air superiority would be more vital to the success of the mission of all forces than close support would be?” Speaking of his experience in Korea, General Ferguson outlined the potential worth of close air support under various battle conditions. "In my opinion," he wrote,  close air support is of little use unless the associated army is ... on the offensive. When t