air antiaircraft missile beginning in 1953 did not contravene the Army-Air Force understanding about air defense since the Ajax was clearly a point-defense weapon with a range of about 25 miles. In mid-1953, however, the Army began to develop the Nike-Hercules, which would have a range of about 75 miles. Since the Nike-Hercules would overlap the range of the Bomarc, General Gavin predicted that conflict in air defense roles and missions would be almost inevitable. In mid-1956 Lt Gen Stanley R. Mickelsen, commander of the Army Antiaircraft Command, had predicted: "Nike is capable of killing any known guided missile and will be effective against the intercontinental ballistic missile when it materializes."!°! In November 1956 the Army approved an additional program for the development of an antimissile system that would be known as the Nike-Zeus.!” At the same time that the Army was extending the range of its Nike family of missiles, General Taylor denounced the Air Force’s rumored intention to procure and deploy Navy-developed Talos air-to-ground missiles as "an invasion of the Army’s antiaircraft mission."  In preparing a memorandum to clarify service roles and missions, which he issued on 26 November 1956, Secretary Wilson noted that the Air Force wanted to deploy Talos missile installations around some of its air bases." In an attempt to clarify the air defense mission, Wilson directed that the commander in chief, Continental Air Defense Command, has the authority and duty to state an operational need for new and improved weapon systems and to recommend to the Joint Chiefs of Staff all new installations of any type. The secretary further directed that the Air Force would be responsible for area defense and that the Army would be responsible for point defense. The point-defense surface-to-air missiles would be designed "for use against air targets at expected altitudes out to a horizontal range on the order of 100 nautical miles." Wilson directed that the Army woul