al air forces and theater air forces. The Joint Chiefs recognized this problem and directed the Air Force to establish a jointly staffed war room in the Pentagon and joint coordination centers in appropriate theaters of operations. The purpose of these centers was to forward information on targets scheduled for nuclear attack to the war room where duplications might be noted and theoretically eliminated. Joint coordination centers were established in the Far East and in Europe during 1952. Staffed by Strategic Air Command personnel, SAC Zebra in Europe and SAC Xray in the Far East served both as coordination centers and as advance command posts to control an emergency war plan employment of Strategic Air Command forces in support of theater commanders. Under then existing ground rules, as many as four commanders were scheduling atomic attacks against the same target. It was thought, however, that in case of a war the joint coordination centers would be able to spread the word when a target was attacked, thus halting duplicative attacks.” As long as all prospective nuclear targets were within the Soviet Union, the simple coordination procedure appeared workable. However, the situation rapidly began to get out of hand when  434  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 456 --- STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS  the New Look greatly loosened planning for the employment of the ever growing atomic stockpile in limited as well as general wars.©  Speaking in November 1953, former Secretary of the Air Force Thomas K. Finletter voiced the opinion that the Air Force needed to revise its "consideration constantly away from the old anti-industry concept of the SAC operations and... make it an anti-force operation."™ When he published Power and Policy in the summer of 1954, Finletter again argued that the  old counter-industry concept for the Strategic Air Command should be given up. There should be substituted for it what may be called the front-to-rear concept. Under this concept all