This missile was designed to carry a heavy nuclear warhead (subsequently determined to be a thermonuclear warhead) and was to have a 5,500-mile range and a supersonic speed of Mach 2.7. The navigational system was to be a nonemanating, pure inertial system, which would not have to refer to the stars or to the ground for course or guidance corrections. Getting the Navaho up to flying altitude where its ramjet engines could take over was a problem that presented some initial complexity. One proposal was to use a B-36 to carry the Navaho aloft and then launch the missile in the air. In 1950 final design specifications provided that the Navaho would be launched piggyback from the ground on liquid-fuel rocket engines. Each of these missiles involved exploitations of underdeveloped technology; how soon the missiles could be placed in operation was anyone’s guess. "We have tried," Maj Gen Gordon P. Saville admitted candidly, "to make a guesstimate of operational availability which includes the fact that inventors have invented as scheduled and that the tests have gone on with the normal amount of ‘snafu’ that we expect."  Technological Breakthrough in Ballistic Missiles  Speaking in 1953, Dr Walter G. Whitman, chairman of the Defense Research and Development Board, suggested that mistakes in military research and development had included the reductions in research and development funding after 1945 and his board’s inability to decide what program should receive the greatest emphasis at any one time. 9 Looking back in 1957 at these initial phases of Air Force missile development, Lt Gen Charles S. Irvine, deputy chief of staff for materiel, observed:  When looking at the early developments of the atomic bomb .. . [given] what we knew about guidance, ... we were not ready to build .. . a ballistic machine and do an efficient job of knocking out targets considering the number of dollars or manhours it would take per target. We went to the airbreathing route, a pilotless airpl