iding very poor support for several test projects — notably the tactical tests of P-80 aircraft at March Field, California. Hearing of the protest, one Tactical Air Command officer retorted that the Air University ought to discontinue its research section and transfer the people to the operating commands where research ought to be performed. 7 The way in which the new system of preparing doctrine would function was gradually worked out. In August 1947, for example, the assistant chief of Air Staff for training and operations held a meeting in Washington to discuss the preparation of a common air defense doctrine. It was agreed that two panels would be established to prepare the  211  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 233 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  doctrine. The Air University would monitor the panel concerned with policy and doctrine, and the Air Defense Command would monitor the panel studying tactics and procedures.” This same pattern would be repeated in other doctrinal studies.  Organization of USAF Headquarters  Even though the postwar organization of the Army Air Forces had been designed to provide for a smooth transition into the autonomous United States Air Force, some changes were necessary when the National Military Establishment got under way in September 1947. General Spaatz became chief of staff, United States Air Force, and General Vandenberg, who had been deputy commanding general and chief of Air Staff in the Army Air Forces, became vice chief of staff, United States Air Force. Looking forward to the establishment of the United States Air Force and not all sure that the postwar organization of the Army Air Forces would be suitable to the autonomous service, Spaatz had suggested that the Air University should use some of its highly experienced students to examine the whole scope of air organization. Prepared as a seminar activity in the first class of the Air War College, problem no. 4, "Proposed Reorganization Army Air Forces," was com