ignated as deputy director, strategic target planning, and the agency comprised officers from each of the services, representatives from the unified commands, and a liaison group from the joint staff of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The agency was located at Headquarters Strategic Air Command because of the availability of programming equipment and experienced personnel there and because SAC had the majority of assigned targets; but the Joint Strategic Target Planning Agency was directly responsible to the Joint Chiefs of Staff and was charged with the preparation of integrated target plans that would take into consideration all of the strategic warfare capabilities of the United States. The staff was divided into two sections. One section was charged to draw up the target list, the other determined which commander would hit a particular target and how he would do it. The target list was called the national strategic target list, and the operating plan was described as the single integrated operational plan (SIOP). Both of these documents were submitted to the Joint Chiefs for review, modification, and approval. The secretary of defense reviewed them and gave final approval. The first assignment of nuclear weapons to strategic targets by the new agency was to be completed by December 1960. As desired by the Navy, the establishment of the Joint Strategic Target Planning Agency permitted the assignment of Polaris submarines to naval components in unified commands rather than to a unified US strategic command.  Organization of Military and National Space Programs  In the hectic months after Sputnik I in October 1957, a welter of conflicting ideas and concepts regarding the utility of space for military operations provided a background to the efforts to organize military and national space programs. "One of the major provocations of .. . interservice rivalry . . .." Secretary McElroy stated, "arises from the fact that there are certain types of weapons that come into the p