iefs of Staff would supersede service doctrines. As they began work, however, each of the service representatives on the joint boards found that he required formal statements of the individual positions and doctrines of his services.  The Air University as a Doctrinal Center  "Since I have been here," wrote General Barker in August 1949, "we’ve been in a constant struggle to get out to our people a valid and clear-cut statement of operational doctrine. It’s needed badly; not only in our schools but in the various joint boards on which the Air Force is represented, and throughout the entire Air  379  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 401 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Force." Barker was convinced that the Air University was the best-qualified agency in the Air Force to prepare and publish doctrinal manuals. "To begin with," he argued,  we have more qualified senior officers than any one place in the Air Force except the Pentagon. Their everyday work involves the preparation of matter appropriate to operational manuals. Of greatest importance is that they can and do devote many long hours to this preparation, to the complete exclusion of all other matters. This cannot be done in the Pentagon. Secondly, our people are unbiased as far as loyalty to strategic, tactical, air defense, etc., are concerned. They are able to view operational doctrine from the viewpoint of the whole Air Force —no compartmentation. This, to my mind, is of the utmost importance if we are going to develop proper air power employment.  While attending an Air Force Educational Conference chaired by General Fairchild in February 1950, General Barker proposed that the commander of the Air University be authorized to approve and publish operational Air Force manuals under an authority from the chief of staff. He explained that the Air University would coordinate the subject matter of all proposed manuals with appropriate Air Force commands and would refer points of difference to the Air Sta