pt for certain "long-haired" research and development men, however, General Irvine suggested in December 1957 that there was an insufficient awareness that the ballistic missile was "only a short step in the evolution of advanced weapon systems." "There is too much feeling . . .in the minds of the people in this country and in Government," Irvine continued, "that we air staff folks are perhaps just a little bit crazy when we talk about these modern machines." au  Although Air Force leaders saw a hopeful relationship between first-generation military missiles and eventual space technology, President Eisenhower and top officials in the Defense Department did not share their beliefs. In its report of 14 February 1955, the Technological Capabilities Panel of the President’s Science Advisory Committee recémmended top priorities for the development of ICBMs and IRBMs. The panel also noted that space satellites would be important in the near future as instruments of reconnaissance, but it believed that no satellite as then conceived could be employed as an offensive weapon. If a space vehicle released a bomb, the bomb would not fall to earth but would continue in orbit in the wake of the satellite.>4° When he discussed security matters in a report to the American people on 13 November 1957, President Eisenhower explained the criteria that he desired to use in regard to space projects. "If the project is designed solely for scientific purposes," he said, "its size and its cost must be tailored to the scientific job it is going to do. If the project has some ultimate defense value, its urgency for this purpose is to be judged in comparison with the probable value of competing defense projects."  Highly critical of the Department of Defense criteria for weapon system development, Doctor von Braun charged in December 1957 that military requirements for missiles were conceived narrowly in terms of "a limited end item" and that such development became "a dead-end street." As war