line of development that would lead the Air Force to the fringes of space originated in the waning months of World War II from a general recognition that the nation lacked basic knowledge about supersonic flight. From the date of  541  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 563 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  its establishment in 1915, the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) had accomplished practically all of the fundamental and basic research in aerodynamics and propulsion for the benefit of the Army, Navy, and civil aviation. Except for unusual cases where results of potential military significance were withheld, the NACA promptly published the results of the investigations that it conducted in its laboratories at Langley Field, Virginia; at Cleveland, Ohio; and at Moffet Field, California. During World War II, NACA had served as the "silent partner of US airpower." Its high-speed airfoil principle, for example, had been employed on the P-51 Mustang to delay the formation of compressibility burbles, thus enabling the Mustang to withstand high-speed dives of over 600 miles an hour. As World War II was ending, however, NACA’s chairman, Dr Jerome C. Hunsaker, warned that "the reserve of knowledge available when we entered the war, and without which victory would have been greatly delayed, has been exhausted. .. . As with the Wright brothers at the first flight, we stand at a new frontier where research to establish the scientific principles and laws governing high-speed flight will determine our future in the air."  Although NACA accomplished fundamental and basic research, this research did not normally include the development of specific aircraft or equipment. Looking toward supersonic flight explorations, the Army, Navy, and NACA agreed that the Army or the Navy would fund research vehicles, the contractor would provide initial flight tests, the Army or the Navy would determine the military applicability of the vehicles, and, after that, a tes