es, Secretary Wilson had announced that development of the missiles would not prejudice the roles and missions of the services. "I am going," he said, "to let Admiral Radford and the chiefs take enough time to worry about . . . the specific roles and missions at some later date after we know what we have."’” Army spokesmen, nevertheless, made it very clear that they wanted the intermediate range missile. Early in 1956 General Taylor boldly asserted the Army’s claim to a 1,500-mile-range missile. "Our Army mission," he said, "is to destroy an enemy on the ground anyplace. ... We are very interested in being able to use for Army purposes against Army targets any missile of any range."° After becoming the chief of Army research and development, General Gavin urged that "TAC air is going out" and that the Army would need missiles to  495  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 517 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  fight in an area "from the Black Sea to the Mediterranean where TAC has no requirements." Army leaders also urged that the Jupiter be mobile and suited for field deployment. In contrast, the Air Force Thor would have to be deployed in fixed positions.*!  In the event of future hostilities, Secretary Wilson conceived that a unified commander "would use all available weapons and all kinds of people that were made available to him"; for this reason Wilson was not too concerned about whether the Army, Navy, and Air Force might develop a given weapon, or how that weapon might fit into the service roles and missions. Nevertheless, he requested that Adm Arthur W. Radford discuss the effect of new weapons on the service roles and missions with the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Although Wilson considered the advice of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, he apparently exercised his own judgment on the matter. The Air Force possessed reconnaissance, intelligence, and ancillary capabilities required to employ a 1,500-mile-range missile. As explained by a defense spokesman, a 1,500-mile missil