or the oil and/or the sietistite and the airplanes z are eliminated. Anyone with a small force can get local air superiority at times." 1202 Y ater on General Bradley was asked to comment on Vandenberg’s explanation of air superiority. "In my opinion," Bradley said, " superiority should be talked about only in relation to certain areas. You gain it over  326  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 348 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  one area, and lose it over another one. Apparently, he was talking about over-all superiority of aircraft."  Despite a very thorough presentation of national defense requirements, the Department of Defense had trouble getting the total amount of the fiscal year 1953 budget approved by Congress. As recommended by its Committee on Appropriations, the House made a $4.2 billion cut in requested appropriations, including a $1.6-billion cut in funds requested for the Air Force. "Some way must be found," stated the House committee, "to shock the people in the Department of Defense from top to bottom into the full realization that the Congress and the American people will not tolerate flagrant waste in money and manpower." Strong arguments offered by Finletter, Vandenberg, and Bradley resulted in the Senate Committee on Appropriations and subsequently the Senate restoring most of the requested Air Force funds. Approved during July 1952, the Department of Defense Appropriation Act for 1953 and the Supplemental Appropriation Act of Defense for 1953 covering military construction made $46.9 billion of new obligational authority available for the Department of Defense, including $13.2 billion for the Army, $12.6 billion for the Navy, and $20.6 billion for the Air Force.  Under the ground rules adopted within the Department of Defense, the Army and Navy maintained their existing force levels but continued force modernization during the year following 1 July 1952. For the Navy this force modernization included the continued construction of the secon