t-defense surface-to-air missiles would be designed "for use against air targets at expected altitudes out to a horizontal range on the order of 100 nautical miles." Wilson directed that the Army would continue to develop the Nike-Ajax and Nike-Hercules and would assume responsibility for development of the land-based Talos. The Air Force would continue to develop Bomarc, and the Navy was given a free hand to develop ship-based air defense systems.  Even though Wilson’s memorandum placed a limit on the range of Army point defenses, it did not change the Army’s concept of how the air defense of the United States ought to be built. The Army’s concept of continental air defense involved a building-block approach whereby ground-to-air missile protection would first be given to strategic air bases, population centers, and other vital points and then would be extended outward to protect the remainder of the nation as far as funds permitted. To effect this system of air defense, the Army employed Nike missile batteries for high-level coverage, Hawk missile batteries for low-altitude protection, and radar for the control of the individual batteries. The Army argued that independently controlled ground-to-air missile batteries would be difficult to destroy. On the other hand, it said that the elaborate communications through  501  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 523 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  which the SAGE system would control Bomarc missiles and manned interceptors would be easier for an enemy to destroy. ’’ The Air Force doctrine on air defense continued to visualize an area defense in which an air defense commander would maintain the integrity of his forces and would not permit them to be parceled out, and it taught that the enemy should be intercepted and destroyed as far as possible from a defended area. "The principle of air defense," General White explained, "should be to strike the enemy just as far from his target as possible. The best defense is t