fort. Rather than reduce our efforts to attain air superiority over the Communists, we should now increase those efforts."  The Wilson budget prevailed in Congress in spite of the eloquent pleas of General Vandenberg. At a conference with legislative leaders on 12 and 19 May, President Eisenhower lent his support to the Wilson program, arguing that the Air Force had been operating on excessive lead time, had too many "paper" wings, and needed to build up its strength without reference to target dates. As finally enacted in August 1953, the appropriation act for fiscal year 1954 totaled $34.6 billion, representing a final cut of $6.7 billion from the amount originally requested by the Truman administration. Of this total, $12.9 billion was allocated to the Army, $9.4 billion to the Navy, and $11.4 billion to the Air Force. Counting both new and carry-over funds, Wilson pointed out that $31.5 billion of Navy and Air Force funds were committed to the procurement of aircraft and related equipment. Such funding, he thought, would be sufficient to continue the buildup of America’s defenses pending the determination of future force levels by the National Security Council and a new Joint Chiefs of Staff.!4 Former Secretary Thomas K. Finletter, nevertheless, observed that the Air Force had taken virtually all of the Department of Defense cuts and that the "arbitrary" cutback in dollars had been such as "to  422  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 444 --- STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS  restore the roughly equal division of the Defense dollar among the three Services." He wrote, "This way of deciding on the forces to defend our country, in this most dangerous time of our history cannot possibly be justified or excused."  Department of Defense Reorganization  As early as 1950, John Foster Dulles had suggested that the National Security Council ought to be made a top policymaking body that would unify foreign, military, and domestic policy. In his State of the Union message to Congre