ng prompt crippling destruction upon the enemy, with absolute minimum combat exposure of American lives."" Both Symington and Vandenberg disavowed any belief that an atomic blitz could produce a "quick, easy, and painless war." "We can hope, but no one can promise," said Symington, "that if war comes the impact of our bombing offensive with atomic weapons can bring it about that no surface forces ever have to become engaged. Disregarding such an illusory hope, we do know that the engagement of surface forces will take place with much greater assurance of success and much fewer casualties to the United States and its Allies if an immediate, full-scale atomic offensive is launched against the heart of the enemy’s war-making power." Vandenberg also emphasized that "any possible future war can be won only by the highest degree of teamwork among the Army, Navy, and Air Force." He specifically denied that the Air Force sought to take over Navy or Marine aviation, and he stated a belief that any future war "will be concluded on the ground." Vandenberg, nevertheless, pointed out that balanced forces were those that were "balanced against the task to be performed." "Balance among military forces," he thought, "should be based on the time sequence of military tasks called for in the strategic timetable.“ This concept had caused him to oppose the construction of the supercarrier. "I am in favor," he said, "of the greatest possible development of carrier aviation to whatever extent carriers and their aircraft are necessary for fulfillment of a strategic plan against the one possible enemy we have to face." Aircraft carriers had been of great importance in the island campaigns of the Pacific, but Vandenberg believed that a future war would resemble the war against Germany rather than that against Japan. Although he did not believe that a supercarrier would be of value in a continental war, he saw a great requirement for the employment of aircraft carriers in antisubmarine warfar