rations in defense of the United States and its overseas possessions."  Beginnings of the GHQ Air Force  When Maj Gen Benjamin D. Foulois moved up from assistant chief to become chief of the Air Corps on 22 December 1931, he brought with him a long record of experience that went back to the earliest days of Army aviation and a new assessment of the international situation. From 1920 to 1924, Foulois had served as the assistant military observer with the American commission and as assistant military attaché at the American embassy in Berlin. He had had intimate talks with many of the German airmen who smarted from defeat: they had insisted that Germany would rise again and would use aviation to conquer Europe. "The first phase of the next war," Foulois reasoned, "is going to be the conquest of Europe, and the second phase is going to be the conquest of the United States. They’re going to use short range aircraft to do the conquest of Europe job, but they'll need long range stuff to lick us." Anticipating that the United States could well be isolated in the Western Hemisphere, Foulois had returned home as an active advocate of long-range bombers.  As the Air Corps five-year expansion program approached a delayed completion in 1933, the added War Department responsibilities for coastal defense and the increasing technological capabilities of bombardment aircraft led General Foulois to suggest that an air power strategy was appropriate for the United States.  66  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 88 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  At the completion of the five-year program, the Air Corps would possess 13 squadrons of observation, 12 squadrons of bombardment, 4 squadrons of attack, and 21 squadrons of pursuit aviation. Instead of the 1,800 aircraft authorized to it, however, the Air Corps had only 1,619 planes, of which 442 were either obsolescent or nonstandard.” The Air Corps based its new defense strategy on the assumption that the United States would be attacked bya co