s of communication, observation and reconnaissance" that "ought to be coordinated  16  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 38 --- THROUGH WORLD WARI  with and subordinated to the general service of information and not erected into an independent and uncoordinated service." Significantly enough, Lieutenant Foulois agreed that it was too early for a separate air corps; Lt Henry H. Arnold was sure that the Signal Corps was doing all it could to advance aviation; Lieutenant Milling considered the proposed change premature. "The offensive value of this thing has yet to be proved," argued Capt William Mitchell. "It is being experimented with— bomb dropping and machines carrying guns . .. but there is nothing to it so far except in an experimental way."“ Nevertheless, during a period of strained relations with Mexico, Army aviators were ordered to Texas City, Texas, in February 1913 to work with the 2d Division. Early in March, this detachment was provisionally organized as the 1st Aero Squadron. ?  A new edition of US Army field service regulations, issued on 19 March 1914, addressed the subject of the use of combined arms and of aviation. These regulations, which would continue to be in effect when the United States entered World War I, assigned the predominant combat role to the infantry: "The infantry is the principal and most important arm, which is charged with the main work on the field of battle and decides the final issue of combat. The role of the infantry, whether offensive or defensive, is the role of the entire force, and the utilization of that arm gives the entire battle its character. The success of the infantry is essential to the success of the combined arms." Aircraft—captive balloons, dirigible balloons, and aeroplanes—served to provide information. For strategical reconnaissance, the dirigible had the greatest practical value, but aeroplanes were said to be more dependable for field service with a mobile army since dirigibles required substant