ht penetrations of Germany was with large bomber formations. In the summer of 1947, however, interceptor tests flown by the ist Fighter Group against B-29s indicated that P-80 pilots had difficulty intercepting a single B-29. 5 As the speed of both bombers and fighters increased, General Kenney reasoned that dogfighting between aircraft would be impossible and that intercepting fighters might be able to make no more than a single head-on pass against a bomber. ts  Although Air Force thinkers had begun to express cautious optimism that the employment of nuclear bombers without fighter escort might be strategically feasible, the USAF Aircraft and Weapons Board, when it began to study the problem of attacking Soviet targets in the autumn of 1947, was uncertain about the  231  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 253 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  kinds of bombers that ought to be procured for the Strategic Air Command. At this time it still appeared that the future supply of atomic bombs would be very limited and that the Strategic Air Command would have to plan to use a heavy proportion of conventional bombs in a strategic air campaign. The major problem, however, was to penetrate Soviet defenses and attack heavily defended targets with atomic bombs.!”” The only intercontinental bomber that the Air Force had in prospect was the giant, conventional B-36. An order for 100 of these planes had been placed on 23 July 1943, but to meet price rises and the costs of improved engines this wartime order had been cut to 95 aircraft. Since the war appropriation covering the contract would run out in June 1948, the Air force would need new appropriations to complete it. The B-36 was large and appeared to be relatively slow, but it was the only aircraft that could bomb Soviet targets from bases in the United States.!? B-29s and improved B-50s were already in the Strategic Air Command inventory, but these planes lacked the range to strike deep in Soviet targets and return. T