en David I. Walsh and Rep Carl Vinson informed Secretary Forrestal that Congress was not likely to approve the creation of one department of defense under the administration of a single secretary, the appointment of a single supreme commander of the armed forces, a curtailment of the Marine Corps, a transfer of vital naval aviation functions to a separate air force, or the elimination of the responsibilities of the secretaries of war and Navy to initiate and support their budgets before Congress.!?  Held during May 1946, a series of conferences between Forrestal and Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson developed fundamental points of disagreement between the Navy and Army. The War Department position on aviation had been suggested by Arnold’s testimony before the Senate Committee on Military Affairs in October 1945. Arnold had said: "I think there is a definite place for the air arm of the fleet, to work in conjunction with the fleet. . .. I do not think that the flat-top planes have the power to deliver the blows that are necessary for our primary air force." In May 1946 the War Department thought that the separate air force should develop and operate all military air resources except for carrier- and water-based aircraft deemed essential for Navy and Marine Corps operations and for such land-type aircraft as were necessary for the internal administration of naval affairs, for training, or for air transportation over routes of sole interest to naval forces where such requirements could not be met by normal air transport facilities. The Army Air Forces was already performing long-range reconnaissance, and the War Department proposed that it could provide such reconnaissance to the Navy and also meet surveillance requirements for antisubmarine warfare. As for the Marine Corps, the War Department agreed on the requirement for a "balanced fleet marine force including its supporting air component," but it wished to limit the marines to service with the fleet in connecti