ordered as pursuit fighter planes were 66 Lockheed P-38s and as pursuit interceptors, 95 Bell P-39s. As a potential additional pursuit fighter aircraft, the Air Corps ordered a single experimental XP-47 from Republic Aircraft. Early in 1939 the Air Corps Materiel Division examined what had been learned from the design of the XB-15 and XB-19. In May 1940 the Air Corps circulated a request for bids for the production of prototype bombers that would have a tactical operating radius of 2,000 miles, a cruising speed of 200 miles per hour, and a normal bomb load of 2,000 pounds. In the autumn of 1940 the air arm ordered an XB-29 from Boeing and an XB-32 from Consolidated Aircraft.13  94  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 116 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  After deliberating through a summer of sweeping changes, the War Department Air Board completed a report that was approved by General Marshall with a few changes on 1 September and by Secretary Woodring on 15 September 1939. The report declared: "Air Power is indispensable to our national defense, especially in the early stages of war.... Our aviation in peacetime, both its organization and its equipment, must be designed primarily for the application of Air Power in the early days of war. The basis of Air Power is the bombardment plane." Assuming that "a well led and determined air attack once launched may be interfered with, but it can rarely, if ever, be entirely stopped by local defense," the report stated that "the only reasonable hope of avoiding air attack is in the possession of such power of retaliation as to deter an enemy from initiating air warfare." Because of the vital relationship of air bases to air power, the report stated that such bases would be primary air objectives. For the defense of the United States and its possessions, aircraft with superior range were vital. The board recommended a heavy bomber with a range of 2,000 miles and a medium bomber with a 1,000-mile range; it judged that a pursuit figh