ance, but secure it on a very large scale; and having secured it in this war we should make every effort and sacrifice to maintain it for the future. Air supremacy may in the long run become as important a factor in the defense of the Empire as sea supremacy.””” In the United Kingdom, the finding of the Smuts committee that the Royal Flying Corps and the Royal Navy Air Service had been bitterly struggling over limited supplies of planes, engines, and personnel available led to the establishment of the Air Ministry in December 1917 and the Royal Air Force in April 1918. Word of the British action reached the United States without delay and caused a renewed congressional and popular demand for a US Air Service altogether separate from the War and Navy departments.  Within the War Department, it was evident that the separation of responsibilities between the Division of Military Aeronautics and Bureau of Aircraft Production presented an inherent organizational defect. In a memorandum written on 6 June 1918, Col Henry H. "Hap" Arnold, assistant director of the Division of Military Aeronautics, stated that the division must control the design of the equipment with which it was to operate. Arnold did not  27  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 49 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  care who handled supply, but he argued that the Division of Military Aeronautics could not properly be held accountable for operational and military efficiency as long as the Bureau of Aircraft Production was responsible for the quality, design, and production of military aircraft. To alleviate some of the criticism of military aeronautics organization, Secretary Baker on 28 August 1918 appointed John D. Ryan as second assistant secretary of war and director of air service. Since Ryan continued to head the Bureau of Aircraft Production, all Army aviation affairs were in theory under one civilian head. This reorganization, however, had hardly taken effect before the Armistice brought Ryan’s