ation’s fighting forces into asingle unified organization. Hence, our conviction demands unity rather than separation." The Army’s air arm had traditionally sought a separate air force, but the experience of World War II- had caused its leaders to believe that the nation needed integrated rather than separate armed services. The War Department, long a traditional opponent of a separate air force, now became the main driving force for armed service unification. Only the Navy, whose top-ranking officers proposed to General Arnold that AAF strategic bombardment ought to be joined with naval air forces to provide a national striking force, was going to oppose a close unification of the armed services.”  Armed Service Unification and the Air Force  As a background policy for the beginning of postwar planning, Gen Henry H. Arnold approved a statement on 25 February 1944 that advocated establishing a single secretary of war with four assistant secretaries heading the ground forces, the air forces, the naval forces, and a combined bureau of war resources. The plan visualized a compact general staff, directed by a single chief of staff to the president and a supreme war council consisting of the military commanders of the four major services that would be presided over by the single chief. Arnold’s plan assumed that the air force would be coequal with the other services and would possess its own air commander and air general staff. The air force would include "all military aviation except shipborne units operating with the Navy, and those artillery-control and ‘liaison’ units operating with the Army." In regard to the assigning of organic aviation to the Army, the Army Air Forces policy, announced on 10 October 1944, favored such assignments only if the aircraft would be put to sustained use; only if the separation of such aircraft from the mass of airpower would not seriously reduce that power; only if the function to be performed would not duplicate functions already being