ngly fatigued by his duties, Forrestal arranged to resign. President Truman requested that he introduce Louis A. Johnson to the duties of secretary of defense. Accompanied by Johnson, Forrestal took the Joint Chiefs to Key West in February 1949 for several days of uninterrupted study of force levels. The Joint Chiefs were still unable to resolve all their problems within the $14.4 billion that they expected to be the budget ceiling for fiscal year 1951, but they agreed to accord priorities to forces on the basis of what would be necessary in order to avoid defeat, what next would be necessary, and what they would require if each service could have every type of weapon that it wanted.  In December 1948, when they had considered the force structure to be attained under President Truman’s budget ceiling, the Joint Chiefs of Staff had been able to agree on all items except the number of attack carriers that the Navy would continue to operate. The Air Force recommended four, the Army six, and the Navy nine. Unable to agree, the Joint Chiefs had passed the problem to Forrestal, who  247  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 269 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  had decided that the Navy would retain eight attack carriers and attendant forces on active duty24 Apparently troubled after his return from Key West about the matter of the supercarrier United States, which the Navy was beginning to build, Forrestal asked secretary-designate Johnson to make a thorough study of the problem, saying that he had come to have doubts about it but that he did not feel he could do anything about it. Shortly after he became secretary of defense on 29 March 1949, Johnson asked the Joint Chiefs to state their opinions on the aircraft carrier. Adm Louis E. Denfield, chief of naval operations, favored the completion of the $188 million vessel, on which some $20 million had already been expended. General Bradley, on the other hand, reasoned that budgetary restrictions already seriously lim