ell was greatly impressed with Douhet’s ideas.”  Air Service officers, thus, certainly knew of Douhet’s ideas, but probably recognized that these concepts were politically unacceptable in the United States. As Secretary Baker had reported in November 1919,  Air raids upon great unfortified cities like London and Paris brought into the war a new element and constituted an abandonment of the time-honored practice among civilized peoples of restricting bombardment to fortified places or to places from which the civil population had an opportunity to be removed. . .. The actual loss of life caused by these bombardments was relatively small and the destruction of property, while large, had no appreciable effect upon the war-making power of either nation. Indeed it may rather be said that the willingness of the enemy casually to slaughter women and children, and to destroy property of no military value or use, demonstrated to England and France the necessity of beating so brutal a foe, and it is most likely that history will record these manifestations of inhumanity as the most powerful aids to recruitment in the nations against which they were made.  General Patrick and the Air Service  When he took charge of the Air Service in October 1921, General Patrick faced the challenge of bringing order to the Air Service. The Air Service as a whole, Patrick observed, "was in about as chaotic a condition as [what he] had found .. .  39  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 61 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  when some three years before [he] had been placed in charge of it in France." Much of the confusion grew out of the absence of a unified body of thought among Air Service officers. As Patrick believed, thinking about military aviation tended toward the extremes and he preferred a middle way. "There are, on the one hand," he stated, "enthusiasts who believe that the coming into being of aircraft have practically scrapped all other combat agencies; and, on the other hand,