direct or indirect."  Under the Department of Defense budget program for fiscal year 1956 submitted to Congress in January 1955, the Army would be expected to reduce its active duty strength to approximately 1,027,000 persons and could thus support 15 combat and 3 training divisions and 136 antiaircraft battalions.””" However, the Department of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff had encouraged each service to maintain the maximum combat force possible within approved manpower ceilings, and General Ridgway had preferred to increase Army combat units even though there had been a loss in personnel. On 30 June 1955 the Army would thus possess 20 divisions, 122 antiaircraft battalions, and 6 regimental combat teams. One of the divisions was slated for early inactivation; Ridgway reported that five divisions were training organizations and that two divisions located in Alaska and Panama were "static divisions." According to Ridgway, the Army thus had something in the neighborhood of 13 combat-ready divisions, and of this total only four or five divisions that were located in the United States and Hawaii were combat ready and could be counted as strategic reserve divisions. Ridgway was critical of the Army’s "paper" strength and he pointed out that the four or five strategic reserve divisions had very little mobility in the form of airlift or sealift.  In justifying the Army program early in 1955, Ridgway continued to emphasize the role of Army forces in general war. "I think," he told congressmen, "the part of prudence and wisdom dictates that the United States be prepared to win a long war if we get involved in it. That means substantial use of the decisive element in any war of the past, which has been the man on the ground, who has a capability for progressively applying force, who has the capability that no other armed service has, that of seizing, occupying, and retaining ground taken." Although Ridgway thus continued to visualize the Army’s primary role as a forc