sufficient to destroy the United States, General LeMay had been willing to believe that the United States "could afford the luxury of devoting a substantial portion of our Air Force effort to support of ground forces." He thought, "The maintenance of part of our force as close support posed no grave risk, because the enemy didn’t have the capability to destroy us. He couldn’t initiate an effective air offensive blow against us because he couldn’t mount one." By 1956, however, LeMay considered that the Soviets possessed aircraft and weapons capable of inflicting nuclear devastation on the United States. Under these conditions, he said: "Offensive air power must now be aimed at preventing the launching of weapons of mass destruction against the United States or its Allies. This transcends all other considerations because the price of failure may be paid with national survival."!4 Based on this strategic estimate, LeMay apparently was not adverse to the Army’s attempts to increase its own organic supporting firepower. In June 1956, Gen Maxwell D. Taylor, the new Army chief of staff, stated that "the trend will be toward the substitution of the missile, the Army-controlled missile, for what we call close support of ground forces."" In a directive on roles and missions issued on 26 November 1956, Secretary Wilson authorized the Army to develop surface-to-surface missiles with ranges up to 200 miles. At an Air Force Commanders’ Conference in January 1957, LeMay considered that Wilson’s directive was an emancipation of the Tactical Air Command inasmuch as it visualized, as LeMay saw it, that "the firepower necessary for close support in the confines of the combat zone can and should be provided by relatively short range weapon systems organic to the Army." He accordingly recommended that the time had come to reorganize all of the offensive elements of the Air Force into an "Air Offensive Command" under a single air commander. "With control of our air forces piecemealed thr