s they arrived in France. As an integral combat arm of the ground forces, the air units assigned to the front were commanded, in the full sense of the word, by the commanding generals of the armies, corps, and divisions to which they were assigned. "The Air Service," stated General Patrick, "originates and suggests employment for its units but the final decision is vested in the commanding general of the larger units, of which the Air Service forms a part." In most instances, however, Patrick acknowledged that ground commanders lacked experience with aviation and depended heavily on their Air Service officers.*! To guide the air effort in the autumn of 1917, Colonel Mitchell drew up what was probably the Air Service’s first formal statement of doctrine in a paper entitled "General Principles Underlying the Use of the Air Service in the Zone of Advance A.E.F." In the preface, Mitchell stated that the outcome of war depended primarily on the destruction of an enemy’s military forces in the field; no one of the Army’s offensive arms alone could bring about complete victory. Hence the mission of the Air Service was to help other arms in their appointed missions.  Mitchell divided aviation into two general classes: tactical aviation, which operated in the immediate vicinity of troops of all arms, and strategical aviation, which acted far in advance of troops of other arms and had an independent mission. According to Mitchell, tactical aviation consisted of observation, pursuit, and tactical bombardment. Observation squadrons performed visual and photographic reconnaissance, adjusted artillery fire, and provided liaison services. Pursuit aviation attained mastery of the air in air battles and, when necessary, created diversions by attacking enemy personnel on the ground. Tactical bombardment operated within 25,000 yards of the front lines. Its objectives were to assist in the destruction of enemy materiel, to undermine the morale of enemy personnel, and to force hostile a