S. Power, the new commander of the Strategic Air Command, added: "a tremendous  446  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 468 --- STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS  disservice . . . is rendered the American people when people say there is a nuclear stalemate... .Itisa very fluid situation. We have the deterrent posture today. We can lose it tomorrow.">!  Limited Wars Are a Problem  In the autumn of 1953, the US State Department’s Policy Planning Staff reportedly believed that the Army could have strengthened a case against the dominant trend toward nuclear weapons by giving up the idea of tailoring its forces for a large conventional war and instead basing its argumentation on the more solid ground of preparing to meet small war.!*? In his address of 12 January 1954, in which he broached the concept of massive retaliation, Secretary Dulles did not neglect the matter of local defense: "Local defenses," he said, "must be reinforced by the further deterrent of massive retaliatory power." In April 1954 he expanded the theme, writing: "To deter aggression, it is important to have flexibility and the facilities which make various responses available. In many cases, any open assault by Communist forces could only result in starting a general war. But the free world must have the means for responding effectively on a selective basis when it chooses."!8 Despite these statements, Dulles apparently did not believe that the State Department could advocate properly or competently particular military means or methods for implementing the national strategy—this was the task of professional military planners.  In the initial planning for force allocations under the New Look, General Ridgway rejected the image of limited war. "The day when wars had limited effects," he observed in the autumn of 1953, "is past. ... War, if it comes again, will be total in character." General Ridgway considered "around 26 divisions" or approximately 1.3 million men to be a realistic strength for the Army, but Ne