quipment of all types, at its source. The next most efficient way is to knock it out along the road before it reaches the front line. The least efficient way is after it gets dug in at the front line. Nevertheless, there are requirements constantly where the utilization of air power in close support is necessary.  Because of peculiar circumstances in Korea, Vandenberg demonstrated that the Air Force could not adhere to its doctrine. The war materiel that came to the enemy within Korea originated in the Soviet Union, which could not be attacked. Consequently war materiel had to be destroyed somewhere south of the Yalu, and, as arule, Vandenberg explained, the greater the length "of road and rail that you can get the enemy from his main source of supply, the more advantageous it is to the Air Force and, therefore, as you decrease it, it becomes less advantageous. .. . As the distance between the Yalu River and our troops decreases, the effectiveness of our tactical air forces decreases in direct proportion." For these reasons, Vandenberg favored a negotiated peace in Korea which would "reestablish the freedom of the South Koreans and. .. push the aggressor back." "I believe," he said, "our objective is to kill as many Chinese Communists as is possible without enlarging the war at the present time in Korea. I believe that there are reasonable chances of success in achieving a negoiated peace without endangering that one potential . .. Which has kept the peace so far, which is the United States Air Force."  301  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 323 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Air Power Stalemates the Communists  Even though the Washington leaders sympathized with the apparently desperate condition of the United Nations Command force in Korea, they felt compelled to view Korea in terms of the global defensive situation. Believing that attempts to unify Korea by military means would be to incur an unacceptable risk of an Asiatic or general world war, the Jo