ted Under Secretary of State Lovett to begin exploratory discussions looking toward the participation of the United States in a broadened Atlantic alliance. Agreements were reached on the general nature of such a treaty in September and in December Secretary of State Dean Acheson began to negotiate the treaty in private. In his inaugural address on 20 January 1949, Truman spoke of a need for a collective defense on the North Atlantic area.  When they appeared before congressional committees in support of the National Military Establishment budget for fiscal year 1950, the military leaders generally emphasized the force reductions that were impending. Appearing before the House Subcommittee on Appropriations on 31 January 1949, Forrestal justified the budget as one "designed to maintain a military posture for the preservation of peace." Forrestal continued to believe in balanced forces, but he admitted that "as air power expands its radius it may be that you will have a war in the future where you will rely on it alone." He favored the 70-group concept as an authorized force, but he believed that this should be an ultimate — rather than an immediate — goal.“"” Army officers did not question the new strategy. Secretary of the Army Kenneth C. Royall mentioned that for the first time in American history the defense budget had been correlated for the three services; Lt Gen Albert E. Wedemeyer, the Army’s deputy chief of staff for plans and combat operations, observed that "for the first time in my knowledge since I have been in the Army the strategy has been correlated and integrated." :  At Air Force hearings early in February, Secretary Symington explained that the Joint Chiefs of Staff had accepted strategic bombing as the primary mission of the Air Force and had approved the establishment and maintenance of the 48 combat groups and 10 separate squadrons. The Air Force assistant for programming, Maj Gen Frederic H. Smith, Jr., frankly described the 48-group program as