here was general agreement in the Air Force that a future war would allow little or no time for mobilization. The Air Materiel Command accepted the policy that the decisive phase of a future general war would be the first 90 days and that hostilities could begin at any hour. "It is one of the tenets of modern warfare," LeMay wrote, "that the decision in tomorrow’s conflict will be reached using only the forces in being at the outset. ... Today, shooting wars are won or lost before they start. If they are fought at all, they will be fought principally to confirm which side has won at the outset."  As a second priority to the counterair strikes, the Strategic Air Command planned to support theater commanders in retarding the advance of Soviet ground forces. For this task, LeMay planned to deliver weapons against targets the theater commander wanted destroyed.’” Even though much of the counterforce strategy was acceptable, the Air Force was as yet unable to accept such an undertaking in all its details. Mindful that a major reason for the assignment of theater-support missions to the Strategic Air Command in 1950 had been that the large and scarce  436  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 458 --- STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS  atomic weapons of that time could be transported only by strategic bombers, Gen Otto P. Weyland believed that as tactical aircraft gained atomic capabilities the primary responsibility of the Strategic Air Command should shift from theater support strikes to attacks on basic sustaining resources, industries and facilities essential for the prosecution of war and that the Tactical Air Command and the theater air forces ought to become "responsible for attacks on enemy military forces and materials in being, en route to or in battle."  Although the Strategic Air Command would remain responsible for an important segment of the retardation missions, the targets SAC was scheduled to attack under the retardation objective were somewhat less than the counterf