ordingly, the basic air doctrine manual, published on 1 April 1953, accepted the broad proposition that the Air Force supported the nation’ s objectives and policies, but without attempting to say what they were.’’ As a matter of fact the Air University believed that the nature of modern war and the national objectives and policies worked closely together to determine the correct use of military aviation.~ In a speech on 4 December 1957, however, Gen Thomas D. White strongly asserted a contrary view, when he said: "Air Force doctrine is not a thing apart nor a code sufficient unto itself. The Air Force is a national instrument and evolves no doctrine, makes no preparation other than those clearly and unmistakably called for or anticipated by the national policy." ° The requirement that Air Force doctrine must support national objectives and policies necessarily marked it as distinct from pure air power doctrine, which would enunciate through theory and logic immutable principles that characterize air power as different from land power and sea power.  A 1951 Air War College study noted that doctrine was easily confused with strategy on the one hand and with tactics and techniques on the other hand. Air University found little difficulty in distinguishing doctrine from tactics and technique: the latter depended quite manifestly upon specific equipment and special situations and were designed to implement specific actions within the broad framework of basic doctrine. Strategy also was judged to be concerned with specific situations, although on a tremendously broader scale than tactics. Brig Gen Alfred R. Maxwell, an Air Force author on the subject, stated that the tools of strategy were a sound plan, adequate forces, appropriate execution, and guidance by proper principles. "Strategy," wrote Maxwell, "is the act of infusing into a plan and/or applying a central idea, design, or timing which will give the greatest possitlt advantage in a campaign or situation. The stra