ived the acceptance required by doctrine, but there was less agreement as to whether doctrine was confined to the service level of the armed forces.” In 1957, for example, Col Wendell E. Carter contemplated a national doctrine that would grow out of the deliberations of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and would dictate how wars would be fought.>! In this same year, Prof Henry A. Kissinger visualized that strategic doctrine enabled society "to act purposefully as aunit ... by reducing most problems to a standard of average performance which enables the other members of the group to take certain actions accordingly." "By explaining the significance of events in advance of their occurrence," Kissinger asserted that strategic doctrine "enables society to deal with most problems as a matter of routine and reserves creative thought for unusual or unexpected situations."" Kissinger thought that this strategic doctrine should desirably i issue from the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the National Security Council? Apparently  8  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 30 --- EMERGING PATTERNS  willing to broaden the definition of doctrine, an Air War College study completed in 1958 identified a need for a US military doctrine that would represent "some substantial consensus of the whole body politic, and particularly among all military personnel, as to objects of military enterprise."  Early in the 1950s Air University had maintained the proposition that "USAF doctrine, developed within the parameters of the more valid concepts of air power, is intended for practical purposes to be used as a guide for organization, development, equipment, and employment of the United States Air Force." Some Air Force officers, however, were more skeptical of the role of doctrine in Air Force development. "The Air Force," Gen Nathan F. Twining, acting Air Force chief of staff, had stated in 1952, "is not bound to any fixed doctrine or concept. It grew out of scientific achievement."°° When he appro