millimeter gun defenses of World War II and concluded that the heavy bombers could not live in such an environment. When told of these conclusions, General LeMay responded: "Experience, I think, is more important than some of the assumptions you make."  Problems of Strategic Air Targets  The Anglo-American strategic air campaign against Germany marked the first significant effort to do something drastic to an enemy other than to defeat his combat forces. In this pioneer effort, planners sought to describe air target systems whose destruction would accomplish desired objectives. One of the major problems facing these planners was a lack of basic information about German industry when the war began. As strategic bombing commenced, German industries were dispersed, adding to the complexity of identifying targets.  156  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 178 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  Moreover, since Hitler did not order full-scale German mobilization for war until 1942, the German economy had a cushion of capability that could be employed to expand production in 1943-44.”  Thinking in terms of a survey of the vulnerability of US industry to strategic air attack that had been made at the Air Corps Tactical School in the early 1930s, the air officers who drew up AWPD-1 recommended strategic air attacks against Germany’s electric power, transportation, oil, and petroleum capacities as well as against civilian morale. AWPD-42 specified the order of priority of air targets as being: aircraft and aircraft engine factories, submarine building yards, transportation facilities, electric power plants, oil refineries, aluminum manufacturing plants, and rubber plants. The major difference between the two target lists was that AWPD-1 assumed that an air offensive might eliminate the necessity for a subsequent ground invasion, whereas AWPD-42 looked toward the establishment of an air ascendancy necessary to subsequent surface operations. The strategic targets suggested in A