ogle  2 16o06-pd#esn ssao9e/fuo*isnsiaty rey mmm//:diizy / peztit6tp-2 16009 ‘utewog IT1qGNd 9689TPZOOZTTOE Ontn/zzZoZ/JeU'a,pueYy py//:sdyiy / IWD €O:bT ZT-OL-vZOZ UO AITS4aATUN eTquN {OD Je pajlesaua9  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 386 --- CHAPTER 7  THE AIR FORCE WRITES ITS DOCTRINE 1947-55  "Where in the Air Force," asked Maj Gen Lauris Norstad, the assistant chief of air staff for plans in 1946,  will there be assembled more of what it takes to study, discuss, devise, develop, test and formulate than at the Air University? Here, in an atmosphere dedicated to instruction, thinking, study and discussion, there will of necessity be a constant evaluation of any current combat and an immediate application of its lessons to existing tactical doctrines. "Shall we change; is our doctrine sound?" will be daily questions in the minds of hundreds of instructors, spurred on by the sharp analysis and questions of thousands of highly-experienced students. Why not give these men the job of evaluating combat and formulating tactical doctrine for the entire Air Force? .. . They can probably doa better job, resolve a greater amount of sound thinking into useable doctrine than any group of men anywhere. And they will do it whether or not they are charged with it.  Early Efforts to Identify Air Force Doctrine  As aresult of Norstad’s recommendations and the favorable reputation enjoyed by the old Air Corps Tactical School, the Air Force issued a June 1946 mission summary that read that the Air University:  reviews, revises, and prepares publication of AAF basic doctrine. . .. Develops basic doctrines and concepts for the employment of air power. . . . Maintains continuing research into the strategic, tactical, and defensive concepts of air power, both manned and unmanned aircraft and guided missiles. . . . Maintains close liaison with the Headquarters of the Strategic Air Command, the Tactical Air Command and the Air Defense Command with regard to matters of policy and doct