, an experimental glider; Dyna-Soar II, a reconnaissance vehicle; and Dyna-Soar III, a bombardment system. On 15 November 1957 the Air Force approved the Dyna-Soar development plan and allocated research and development funds for the hypersonic glider test vehicle. Early in 1958 the Air Force reduced Dyna-Soar to two stages: Dyna-Soar I continued to be the unmanned experimental space glider, while Dyna-Soar II would be a composite manned bomber and reconnaissance system. The Soviets also appeared to be doing research on the basis of Sanger’s original ideas. In 1958 a Soviet aviation journal referred to a Russian glide-bombing system capable of attaining an altitude of 295,000 feet and of striking targets at distances up to 3,500 nautical miles.*6  Shortly after World War II, the Air Force also began several studies and experiments concerned with the problem of maintaining life at hypersonic speeds and very high altitudes. In 1946 the Aeromedical Laboratory at Wright-Patterson AFB joined with the National Institute of Health in upper-atmosphere experiments at White Sands and Holloman AFB, New Mexico. Insects, fungus spores, and later small animals were sent aloft in V-2 and Aerobee rocket capsules to reveal the effects of cosmic radiation and high altitudes on living things. In November 1948 the Air Force School of Aviation Medicine had held a symposium on "The Medical Problems of Space Travel"; in February 1949 it organized a department of Space Medicine. The Aeromedical Laboratory began the  544  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 566 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  development of a T-1 pressure suit in 1943; the suit saved the life of a test pilot in 1951 when the X-1 lost its cabin pressure on a high-altitude flight. The X-15 required an even more sophisticated full pressure suit; the boost-glide vehicles would need a habitable cabin. Looking toward design of space capsules, the Air Force employed High Man manned balloon flights. The first High Man flight occur