NASA, and single representatives from ARPA and the Army, Navy, and Air Force. The liaison committee held its first meeting on 25 November and thereafter assembled about once a month. The committee dealt successfully with some matters, but neither Glennan nor McElroy was said to be "willing to delegate to junior people settlement of major issues." Holaday soon reported: "The committee, because of its composition, that is, membership made up of representatives who are subject to a higher internal authority, is incapable of making firm decisions."!® When it was unable to secure a single point of contact with the Department of Defense through the mechanism of the liaison committee for handling the tracking and recovery of planned Mercury astronaut flights, NASA finally appealed directly to McElroy for action. On 10 August 1959 McElroy designated Maj Gen Donald N. Yates, commander of the USAF Atlantic Missile Range, as the Department of Defense representative under the Joint Chiefs of Staff for the support of Project Mercury, Yates was provided an assistant from the Navy for command of recovery forces.!2?  Speaking in March 1959 before the full impact of the National Aeronautics and Space Act became apparent, Secretary McElroy observed that it was the "responsibility of the military in this overall programming of outer space to make certain that those things which are specifically military objectives are taken care of one way or the other either by NASA or by ARPA ... that division seems to me to be less important than the assurance that the job is being done by competent people in one or the other." Admiral Hayward, on the other hand, suggested that "NASA should have been set up similarly to the Atomic Energy Commission, with a division of military applications in this agency," and "that we should have one space program."!3! General Schriever differed with both of these opinions. "I feel," he said, "that the world in which we live — being what it is our national securit