ely be won or lost on the ground." Believing that it would be possible to defend Western Europe successfully prior to 1954, Vista recommended an augmentation of Army capabilities there and the adoption of ground tactics to force attacking enemy forces into concentrations that would make attractive targets for massive air strikes with atomic or conventional explosives. Despite this emphasis on the ground mission, Vista recognized that "the successful defense of Western Europe may hinge mainly on the extent to which United States and Allied tactical air power is effectively employed." Taking consideration of the increasing size of the American atomic stockpile, Vista recommended a substantial increase in tactical nuclear weapons and the building of NATO tactical air units to a strength of approximately 10,000 aircraft, to include 1,500 air-superiority fighters, 3,500 all-weather interceptors, 3,000 fighter-bombers, 1,500 attack aircraft, and 500 tactical bombers. Vista also recommended that the United States Army ought to have two airborne units of corps strength by 1954— one to be stationed in the United States and the other in Europe—and that 400 C-124 and 850 C-123 transport aircraft should be procured to transport and support this airborne force”!  In its description of the air power mission in Europe, Vista contemplated that the battle for air superiority would be of "overwhelming importance" during the period immediately following the outbreak of war—a period which might "last only a few days and will probably not exceed a few months." In a special study on air superiority included in the Vista report, Albert C. Reed advanced the proposition:  328  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 350 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  "Air superiority has two parts, freedom and denial, both of which must be accomplished. . . . It is important to note that we are not attempting to deny the USSR the use of the air; but rather, we are trying to prevent the damage that their operation