ppropriation was "not one of mobilization for war, but rather one of maintaining a firmer foundation of preparedness on which a more rapid mobilization could be based than would be possible without the increases." Truman enjoined Forrestal to proceed with great care in making commitments and to give the entire program a realistic review in September and December 1948. On 25 June, Truman further directed that the Air Force would not expand beyond a strength of 411,000 men and 9,240 active aircraft pending further review in the autumn of 1948,7%8  Shortly after he succeeded Spaatz as Air Force chief of staff on 30 April 1948, Gen Hoyt S. Vandenberg faced the immediate problem of mobilizing existing Air Force capabilities to resist Soviet aggression in Germany and the longer range problem of expanding the Air Force within the limits set forth by President Truman. In Germany, on 24 June, Soviet troops finally halted all rail and road movement from the west into beleaguered Berlin. Later on, Gen Maxwell D. Taylor would assert that people like General Clay and others felt that the United States "should have used force on the highway, at least to verify what the Russian intent was." ~ Contemporary evidence, however, indicates that from the start of the crisis Washington authorities proceeded on the assumption that Berlin would be supplied as long as possible by airlift. "After discussion with the military services... and .. . throughout the National Security Council and finally with the President and the appropriate committees of Congress to whom I reported," said Under Secretary of State Robert A. Lovett, "we decided to stand firm in Berlin and not be thrown out, confident that we could do the job ultimately by the same techniques that we used in lifting approximately 70,000 tons in one month over the hump from India into China at very high altitudes."2°  235  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 257 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  In Germany, where he had been ass