ic air-battle model computer into operation that was able to work through three days of two-sided, strategic global air war in about seven hours, maintaining and recording a net capability position by fifteen-minute increments for the opposing forces as the wargame progressed. "We have come a long way since World War II," said Maj Gen James H. Walsh, Air Force deputy assistant chief of staff for intelligence, "in being able to predict the effects of our bombing campaigns, largely through the continued development or skilled target personnel, the magic of computers, and above all the quantum jump available in nuclear firepower." 3 Even though computers provided a facile means of wargaming, General White insisted that "war is an art and always will be an art" and protested the philosophical approach that wanted to reduce war to mathematical equations. "In the age of missiles," he warned,  it is so easy to add up the number of missiles, the CEP [circular error of probability], number of missiles required to knock out a particular target, and come up with a table of equations and give it toa Ph.D. and tell ... [him] to push XYZ buttons. Ido not think war will be that way, because I feel that in this age of nuclear weapons the greatest confusion that mankind has ever faced will reign. We will have variables and we must be prepared for the unexpected. Decisions must be based on human judgment, able to fit many variable reactions to variable situations.  The deterrence of war had been an American objective since 1945 and the concept of nuclear stalemate had been talked about since 1954, but Sputnik precipitated an immediate and intense discussion of both of these matters. "It is a grim enough world," said Dr Vannevar Bush in November 1957, "if two countries face each other with such weapons that, if all-out war broke out, both countries would be completely demolished. ... But we feel that under those circumstances, all-out war would probably not break out, because no man w