el Garland’s seminar was surveying the Air Force publications system, another Air War College seminar headed by Col C. P. Lessig was assigned the task of revising FM 100-20. Because of Garland’s recommendations, Lessig’s seminar undertook to draft the "Air Power" volume of the air employment instructions series and completed this project in February 1948.16 Meanwhile, another seminar — headed by Col R. A. Grussendorf and composed of Cols Noel F, Parrish, Arno Leuhman, E. L. Sykes, and G. P. Disosway—was tasked with the problem of determining how the Air University ought to proceed with producing "The Commander’s Guide." In a study completed on 16 March, this seminar suggested that the Air Force had been "organized and operated as a result of ideas existing in the minds of a very few men" that had "never been well stated" and had "never been brought together and organized into a complete and logical form" nor "explained in suitable terms bearing the sanction of official approval." It recommended that a permanent group of qualified Air Force officers and civilian writers, working under direct authority of the vice chief of staff, should be assigned the task of writing and continuously revising the text of the air employment instructions. Grussendorf’s seminar also recommended that the collection of source material for this permanent group should be as comprehensive as possible, that the sources should encompass the best thoughts of all available experts on air power employment, and that personal interviews should be used to the maximum. Since few air leaders had written clearly on the fundamentals of air warfare, the seminar suggested that any complete and official statement of the meaning of air power could "be derived from only one source, the minds of leading military airmen." While they were brief and incomplete, the statements of Air Force leaders during the investigations of the Air Policy Commission and the Joint Congressional Aviation Policy Board headed by Se