y in 1959 Brig Gen William W. Momyer, now TAC’s director of plans, stated that the Tactical Air Command would attempt to move to a standardization of its aircraft. He noted that a "multiplicity of weapon systems had been a plague to the TAC inventory over the years." During 1959 the Tactical Air Command perfected a new concept of tactical air power that hinged upon a clear distinction between the requirements for forces for general and small wars. The new concept visualized that theater-deployed air capabilities ought to begin an evolutionary transition that would prepare them to perform general war missions. These missions could best be performed with missiles. Under the concept, manned tactical aircraft would be returned to the United States and held in a central reservoir from which they could be deployed as necessary for the accomplishment of small war tasks or in support of a nuclear missile exchange in a general war. After being briefed on the new concept early in 1960, General White announced: "Our tactical air effort, both overseas and in the zone of interior, is a prime function for which manned aircraft will be needed as far into the future as I can see. We should retain for ourselves the truly flexible weapon system — aircraft — and turn over to our allies the relative inflexible missile business."  Development in Continental Air Defense  As viewed by the Continental Air Defense Command and the Air Defense Command, the problem of providing an air defense system for the nation was essentially one of preparing forces capable of effective action against a series of rising plateaus of Soviet offensive capabilities. Active air defenses had to be maintained against a current plateau of Soviet threat, and forward air defense projections had to comprehend successive plateaus of Soviet offensive capabilities. Since they were unable to forecast future technological capabilities, the air defense planners saw little choice other than to credit the Soviets with the ab