posed any rigid initial operational capability plans that might freeze designs and commit missiles to quantity production before a first missile had been tested. Work, nevertheless, was begun on a "soft" missile base at Camp Cooke, California (subsequently Vandenberg AFB), in May 1957. In August the Air Force selected Francis E. Warren AFB, Wyoming, and Lowry AFB, Colorado, for development as Atlas and Titan initial operational capability bases. With Air Staff approval, the Air Research and Development Command activated the 1st Missile Division at Camp Cooke on 1 April 1957 to supervise training and operational phases of the initial operational capability program.) By autumn 1957 the Air Force Ballistic Missile Division had the nucleus of an initial  515  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 537 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  operational missile force in being, and at the commanders conference in September General White told the new SAC commander, Gen Thomas S. Power, that he wanted SAC to get "into the picture as soon as possible without ‘rocking the boat’ and upsetting the overall program." On 29 November White accordingly announced that he had transferred the 1st Missile Division to SAC, along with responsibility for the initial operational capability of both the ICBM and IRBM programs. The transfer of the 1st Missile Division to SAC and the simultaneous establishment of an Office of Assistant Commander in Chief SAC for Missiles (SAC-MIKE) in Inglewood, California, became effective on 1 January 1958.14  After hearing General White’s presentation at the September commanders conference, General Power remarked that missiles ought to be kept in perspective lest an impression be created "that the bomber is through."! General LeMay shared this same fear. In December, he appeared before a Senate investigating committee in what he described as an "atmosphere of sputniks and intercontinental missiles, when accusations and denials seem to be flying around." LeMay o