mmands (the Eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean and the Strategic Air Commands) and the six unified commands (the Alaskan, Atlantic, Caribbean, Continental Air Defense, European, and Pacific Commands). That same month administrative and logistical support of the unified and specified command headquarters was assigned out among the military departments: the Air Force was made responsible for supporting the headquarters of the Alaskan, Continental Air Defense, and Strategic Air Commands.*? All component forces assigned to the unified or specified commands, including the component force headquarters, were to be administered and supported by the military department that provided the forces. The unified and specified commanders were given no budgetary functions: they made plans and stated requirements for forces to the corporate Joint Chiefs of Staff, who correlated all force requirements with across-the-board requirements and capabilities.“ In a: additional directive issued on 31 December 1958, Secretary McElroy described additional portions of the new organization. This directive visualized three groups of agencies under the secretary of defense. Immediate staff assistance to the secretary was provided by the Office of the Secretary of Defense, which now comprised seven assistant secretaries and the director of defense research and engineering. The Joint Chiefs acted as the secretary's principal military advisers and his military staff in the chain of operational command. The three military departments constituted the second group of agencies. Each department was responsible for the preparation of type forces. The unified and specified commands comprised the third group of agencies. Two command chains were established: the line of operational command ran from the president to the secretary of defense and through the corporate Joint Chiefs of Staff to the commanders of the unified and specified commands. The line of nonoperational command ran from the president to the se