ad given the world many years of peace. In the twentieth century, air power was the only force that could maintain a world balance of power. With this thought in mind, Vandenberg demonstrated that the Air Force had to be kept continuously balanced against the threat of the Soviet Union. "As the power of the Russian air force increases and their stockpile of atomic weapons increases," he said,  the job of the United States Air Force becomes roughly doubled. Whereas today it is a deterrent to war, because of its ability to devastate the industrial potential of any great nation on the globe; tomorrow, if the Russian air force has the atomic bombs and the ability to deliver them, we have to have an Air Force that can take the attrition that would be necessary to destroy that air force, and destroy it promptly; and after that, have a sufficient Air Force left to destroy the manufacturing potential of Russia, and do what we call policing action after that, to insure that it was not rebuilt.  As he saw it, the Soviets were already reducing the margin of superiority of the Air Force to keep the world’s peace. "Today," he said, "we have only one job that we would have to do if we got into a major war with Russia, and that is to lay waste the industrial potential of that country. Tomorrow when they developed their long-range air force and they have more atomic weapons, we have two jobs. We would have to put into first place the job of destroying the Russian air r potential that could utilize atomic bombs, and lay waste the industrial potential. si  Turning more specifically to the situation in Korea, Vandenberg believed that the Air Force was the "one thing that has, up to date, kept the Russians from  300  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 322 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  deciding to go to war." But, in view of its global responsibilities, the Air Force was "a shoestring air force." If the Air Force were called upon to bomb across the Yalu, it could "destroy or lay