lized much more fully, particularly through contracts for specific research and development projects. As an operating procedure, the committee recommended that the Air Force make a needed distinction between components and systems. A system was conceived to be an assemblage of interacting components brought together to deal with a particular problem such as strategic bombardment of air defense. "Within the Air Force," the committee recommended, "the role of systems engineering should be substantially strengthened, and systems projects should be attacked on a ‘task force’ basis by teams of systems and components specialists organized on a semi-permanent basis."  After making its own study of Air Force research and development, the Air University committee stated: "We cannot hope to win a future war on the basis of manpower and resources. We will win it only through superior technology and superior strategy." The committee believed that Air Force leaders generally recognized the importance of research and development but the pressures of day-to-day operational, materiel, and political problems prevented the implementation of vigorous exploratory programs. The Air University’s panel believed that a positive system to secure interactions between science and strategy had to be established as an absolute and automatic function rather than as a voluntary functioning of personalities. Since program stability was the pressing requirement in research and development, the Air University recommended that fluctuations in availability of personnel and funds should be absorbed in activities that were associated with the force in being and not with the Air Force of the future.  277  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 299 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  The Air University committee generally endorsed the recommendations of the Ridenour group; Gen George C. Kenney, now the commander of the Air University, added a strong personal approval to the report of the Air University c