ther its interest. ... The Air component... always supports the ground forces, no matter how decisive its ... operations may be, or how indirect its support." 8 When efforts to revise this statement were not accomplished to his satisfaction, General Fechet stated his own idea on 1 September:  The objective of war is to overcome the enemy’s will to resist, and the defeat of his army, his fleet or the occupation of his territory is merely a means to this end and none of them is the true objective. If the true objective can be reached without the necessity of defeating or brushing aside the enemy force on the ground or water and the proper means furnished to subdue the enemy’s will and bring the war to a close, the object of war can be obtained with less destruction and lasting after effects than has heretofore been the case. At present the Air Force provides the only means for such an accomplishment.  The procurement of aircraft under its expansion program was indicative of Air Corps ideas and concepts; and the performance of the new equipment had a substantial impact upon Air Corps doctrine. In 1924 the Air Service Tactical School had stated that a combat air force could not depend upon surface transportation but required air transport aircraft. The Air Corps began to buy such planes, although in very small numbers since civilian airliners would be available for military service in a war emergency.! ° Tn the first year of the expansion, the Air Corps gave emphasis to the purchase of new observation and pursuit aircraft. Because of alarming experiences with flutter in experimental monoplanes, the standard Air Corps pursuit aircraft of the 1920s were predominately biplanes. In the several years following initial purchases in 1925, the Air Corps bought a total of 150 Curtiss Hawks series planes. However, in 1928 the Air Corps began to buy Boeing P-12F biplanes—which had a top speed of 194 miles an hour—as the standard pursuit planes.  Since observation planes had higher