up of strategic reconnaissance aircraft. LeMay liked the B-36. In its tests in 1948, the B-36B had proven to be a better aircraft than had been predicted. By attaching two twin-jet pods (actually B-47 engines) to the big conventional bomber, the B-36B would be able to operate on a target run at an altitude of 45,000 feet and a maximum speed of 378 knots. Assuming that the Soviets were not more advanced in aerial defense than was the United States, the board reckoned that the B-36B would be able to penetrate Soviet defenses. With its range, moreover, the B-36B could cover 97 percent of Soviet target complexes from bases in North America. The B-36 also could haul 43 tons of conventional bombs over medium ranges, which would permit a great intensification of a conventional air offensive if advanced bases were available. The Strategic Air Command was programmed already to get two groups of B-36s, and the senior officers concurred with LeMay’s request that the command be authorized a total of four groups of B-36Bs and one group of RB-36Bs, all to be equipped with supplemental jet pods.2%?  Since the 48-group program would reduce the Strategic Air Command’s strength to 14 bomber groups, the Senior Officers Board gave careful consideration to the composition of the 10 groups that would be equipped with medium bombers. These planes might be called on to deliver nuclear weapons, but they more probably would be dispatched with conventional bombs in the wake of a B-36 atomic attack against targets, such as Soviet oil, that were too small to warrant atomic bombs. The Senior Officers Board noted that sufficient B-50s had been delivered or were on order to equip and maintain five medium bomber groups and one reconnaissance group. They recommended that two other medium groups and one medium reconnaissance group should be equipped with speedy but limited range B-47s. The remaining three medium bomber groups would continue to be equipped with B-29s and RB-29s, but the board noted th