possible in 15 minutes. "If we can get this alert concept worked out to a point where we can operate under it with a high degree of efficiency," he said, "then I think that even though the Russians have the intercontinental missile that they will still have to consider that question: Will we accept this number of bombs?" The ground alert concept was expensive in requirements for alert facilities and additional aircrews, but by the winter of 1956-57 SAC was planning to keep 30 percent of its crews and aircraft on ground alert. This planning matured quickly after September 1957 and in July 1958 the command placed approximately one-third of its combat-ready fleet on continuous ground alert.  One of the principal reasons why LeMay wished to build up SAC’s B-52 and KC-135 intercontinental capability was a realization that overseas bases would become increasingly vulnerable to Soviet medium-range bombers and IRBMs.! Rather than to continue to risk entire wings at advance bases, the Strategic Air Command, in July 1957, instituted Reflex—a concept of forward deployment to bases in North Africa. Under this concept, designated B-47 wings periodically rotated small numbers of crews and aircraft to the forward bases where they stood runway alerts for short intervals of time. Reflex was subsequently extended to deployments at bases in Spain, the United Kingdom, and Alaska. In forward deployments to the Pacific, SAC implemented Airmail —a plan under which B-47 aircraft were kept on alert in place on Guam while aircrews were rotated to and from Guam at monthly intervals.1 As SAC increased its force of intercontinental B-52 bombers, overseas bases became less vital to accomplishing the strategic air mission. In 1959 Rand expert Albert J. Wohlstetter argued that overseas bases had so little warning time as to make them of little value in case of a general war. On the other hand, Air Force officers maintained that the continued use of these admittedly vulnerable bases gave additional