prodded and took no substantial action on the desired unification legislation during the remainder of 1946.4 Acting again by executive order, Truman vested in the chairman of the Army and Navy Munitions Board the final authority over military procurement, and on 17 October he established the President’s Scientific Research Board to supervise military research and development activities.  At an informal conference in his home early in November 1946, Secretary Forrestal argued that the Army and Navy must make some new efforts to arrive at a mutually acceptable unification plan. According to agreement, Maj Gen Lauris Norstad, who was serving as the director of plans and operations on the War Department General Staff, and Vice Adm Forrest P. Sherman, now the deputy chief of naval operations, would work together to secure agreements. As a first effort Norstad and Sherman sought to draft a directive that would provide uniform instructions to unified theater commanders, who would be charged with operations of land, naval, and air forces. In 1941 and 1942 Army and Navy planners had debated procedures for the command of joint operations without reaching final conclusions. One proposal was that a theater commander should depend on his subordinate air, ground, and naval commanders for advice and could have a staff comprising men from his own service. A second concept was that a theater commander ought to have a joint staff of officers from all services, who, after collaboration with subordinate service commanders, would draw up plans that would secure unity of action while leaving a good degree of freedom to the subordinate commanders. Of all the theater commanders of World War II, only Admiral Nimitz organized and used a joint staff. General MacArthur’s staff was entirely composed of Army officers. In Europe, although General Eisenhower’s staff had officers from the several services, it was, nevertheless, dominated by Army and AAF officers. And, even though he organized theat