, both of which must be accomplished. . . . It is important to note that we are not attempting to deny the USSR the use of the air; but rather, we are trying to prevent the damage that their operations might do to our war effort. In turn, we are not asking for freedom to fly, but rather for freedom to inflict damage upon the USSR." Reed proposed that the criteria for air superiority were the principles of concentration, surprise, and versatility; he argued that air superiority could not be attained by a concentration of tactical atomic aircraft against Soviet airfields at the outset of hostilities. He further proposed that antiaircraft artillery would be useful chiefly for defense of point objectives, that air-to-air fighting did not promise to be very effective, that NATO air and ground forces should emphasize passive air defense measures, and that bomber aircraft should depend upon high-speed and low-altitude attacks, weather, darkness, and countermeasures rather than fighter escort and defensive armament as protection against hostile interceptors. He noted that during World War II when strong fighter escort was employed, the 8-percent loss rate that US daylight strategic bomber forces otherwise sustained was cut roughly in half. However, he argued that some part of this reduction in losses was attributable to the heavy air attacks mounted against German airfields prior to Normandy and to a shift of sizable numbers of German day fighters to the Russian and Normandy fronts. "There is strong reason to believe," he said, "that the escort fighters might have been much more effective as fighter-bombers used against German fighter bases."  Based largely on the analysis of air superiority requirements, Vista recommended that the United States should assume responsibility for developing a NATO tactical air force — including a tactical atomic air force — and that Great Britain should assume responsibility for the operation of a NATO air defense force, the latter to operate