after 1955-562?  In response to Sputnik the Air Force immediately began the construction of two ballistic missile early warning system (BMEWS) sites at Point Clear, Alaska, and Thule, Greenland. Other than this action and the planned reduction in Air Defense Command strength, General LeMay urged that immediate changes should not be made in the North American Air Defense Command. "Our studies now indicate," he explained, "that even when the ballistic missile becomes very efficient, ... the most efficient attack will be a combination of the manned vehicle and the ballistic vehicle, using the best characteristics of both weapon systems." Speaking to a question on air defense requirements in December 1957, General White explained that the Strategic Air Command was "perhaps the major contributor to the air defense, because these forces will hit the enemy at his point of launching." More particularly on the subject, he continued: "We need to complete the extension of the DEW line. We need to improve our radar. ... We need to get on with the more advanced and more sophisticated interceptor system, such as Bomarc. We need to keep modern. . . our manned fighter-interceptors, and we must develop an active weapon against ballistic missiles. . . . I think those are the essentials of the requirements of air defense, and we must get on with it."  535  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 557 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  During 1958 White continued to defend SAGE. "The SAGE system," he said, "will permit us to meet the combined manned jet aircraft and air-breathing missile threat as one concise problem rather than as a series of various problems. ... Even on into the future, SAGE will prove valuable because the forces of the future will undoubtedly be mixed forces —that is, composed of various types of weapons — subsonic, supersonic, and hypersonic."  Although the Air Force successfully secured continued budgeting for its air defense programs in fiscal year 1959, many fa