equently interpretations of facts and not facts themselves, a  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 15 --- thinker may predict meanings before events transpire or, even more likely, continue over a period of years to draw interpretative meanings from the factual happenings of the past. Fundamentally, ideas often lack a temporal quality, hence a history of ideas lacks the neatness of a history of past events. It is possible that this history of ideas, concepts, and doctrine of air power should have been presented as an anthology of pertinent discourse with accompanying commentary. This technique, however, would have obscured a proper recognition of the circumstance wherein the developing Air Force was itself an excellent manifestation of air ideas. The notion of an anthology was, nevertheless, so persuasive that the author, as often as possible, has allowed the thinkers to speak for themselves and to work their dialogue into the narrative. This practice frequently makes for tedious progress when citations are lengthy, and short quotations run the danger of lifting thoughts out of context. Still, summarization of a man’s words in contemporary language can easily distort original meanings. The record will show, for example, that air superiority had different meanings to different thinkers during the course of Air Force history. As a matter of practice, the author has sought to present the story of the way things were and what men were thinking in a developing time frame, without attempting a high-gloss interpretation of either the events or the thoughts.  In the course of the unfolding story, the reader will perceive that Air Force thinkers have seldom addressed themselves to purely theoretical matters but usually have tended to respond to specific situations. Since the United States has always been a defense-minded nation, the nature of the hostile threat has been the greatest stimulant to military thinking. Air Force thinking also has been reactive to the act