ington on 30 November, President Truman stated that the United States would take whatever steps were necessary to meet the situation in Korea, including the use of "every weapon that we have." "Every weapon" included the atomic bomb. "I don’t want to see it used," Truman added. "It is a terrible weapon, and it should not be used on innocent men, women and children who have nothing whatever to do with this military aggression." With conditions worsening, however, MacArthur informed the Joint Chiefs of Staff on 3 December that the United Nations Command was "facing the entire Chinese nation in an undeclared war." He called for "political decisions and strategic plans ... adequate fully to meet the realities involved." At the moment the only direction that President Truman and the Joint Chiefs could give to MacArthur was the terse message: "We consider that the preservation of your forces is now the primary consideration."  General MacArthur was not satisfied with this directive. In a message to the Joint Chiefs and in conversations with General Collins in early December, he argued that the United Nations Command should be permitted to bomb military targets in Manchuria. At least one high-ranking air officer agreed with MacArthur. "I was all for the bombing of Manchuria," stated General O’Donnell, "and I wanted very badly to do it as soon as we recognized the Chinese Communist forces . . . as bona fide forces. . . . I think we could have gotten in and for a very small cost in casualties we could have really hit them hard and perhaps even stopped them." Explaining his ideas more fully to the Joint Chiefs in a long message on 30 December, MacArthur suggested that an active air and naval campaign be launched against Communist China. "Should a policy determination be reached by our government or through it by the United Nations to recognize the state of war which has been forced upon us by the Chinese authorities and to take retaliatory measures within our capabilities," M