sed to the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps position that advocated that the command of air support aviation be delegated to the supported unit.18  The Joint Landing Board, established initially at Quantico and moved to Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, on 1 July 1952, handled highly specialized matters that were not of transcendent concern to the Air Force.!*? On the other hand, the Joint Amphibious Board was directed to resolve more complex matters regarding the doctrine and procedures of joint amphibious operations. When he was assigned to this board as an Air Force representative on 15 October 1951, Col Robert A. Erdin discovered that the Navy had a firmly fixed position, that the Army had definite opinions, and that the Air Force had not given much thought to amphibious warfare. Since the board proposed to give priority to defining doctrines and procedures to govern joint amphibious operations, Erdin devoted much of his time during 1952-53 to perfecting an Air Force position, which, as has been seen, was engrossed in AFM 1-5. On 15 January 1954 the Joint Amphibious Board forwarded a three-way split in opinion to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The Navy-Marine Corps position was that all joint amphibious operations should be conducted by a joint amphibious task force, commanded by an admiral who would personally command both the joint task force and the supporting naval forces. Working through a staff officer designated as a tactical air commander, the joint amphibious task force commander would exercise operational control over all air operations in the amphibious objective area. When control of the air was passed ashore, operational control of air forces would be passed to the landing force commander. The Air Force position that a theater command structure normally would be flexible enough to accommodate all types of operations, including amphibious operations, was incorporated as doctrine in AFM 1-5. Operational control of all theater air forces even during amphibious ope