in the northeastern and southeastern United States, Alaska, Puerto Rico, and Panama.) The Air Corps planned to attain within two years an overall strength of 24 groups — including five heavy bombardment, six medium bombardment, two light bombardment (formerly attack), seven pursuit interceptor, two pursuit fighter, one composite (for the Philippines), and one demonstration (for Maxwell Field). The program also included nine corps and division observation squadrons. Each of the heavy (four-engine) groups and medium (twin-engine) bombardment groups would have a reconnaissance squadron of the same basic type aircraft.!>! Of the 5,498 aircraft in the expansion program, 2,084 combat aircraft were to be assigned to tactical units, 1,341 combat aircraft were to be maintained in a rotating reserve, and 2,073 training aircraft were to be in service or in reserve. The purchase of aircraft for the rotating reserve apparently was authorized in order to expand US aircraft production capacity. But the Air Corps believed that these planes would permit units to maintain themselves at full strength and replace any combat losses incurred between M-day and the time that aircraft facilities could meet wartime demands.  New aircraft for the Air Corps not already on order were quickly placed on order. In fiscal year 1939, even though heavy bomber purchases had not been authorized, the Air Corps issued procurement orders for 206 Douglas A-20 attack bombers and for 200 Curtiss P-40 pursuit interceptors. In fiscal year 1940 it ordered 70 B-17s and, in order to have a second source of production for four-engine bombers, it procured a test quantity of 16 new Consolidated B-24 aircraft. As replacements for the twin-engine B-18s, the Air Corps ordered 183 North American B-25s and 201 Martin B-26s; ordered as pursuit fighter planes were 66 Lockheed P-38s and as pursuit interceptors, 95 Bell P-39s. As a potential additional pursuit fighter aircraft, the Air Corps ordered a single experimental XP-