mbers toward the target and call them back. . .. I do not know how to show your teeth with a missile, particularly when you have it in the silos, and you do not want the enemy to know where they are.  In the winter of 1957-58 Generals White and LeMay believed that the development of intercontinental ballistic missiles and the supersonic B-70 would take care of the future, but the immediate task was to do something more immediately to continue aircraft modernization and give protection to the Strategic Air Command. In the immediate aftermath of Sputniks I and II, Secretary McElroy asked the Joint Chiefs of Staff to study and recommend highly important items where defense could be augmented with additional funds. To meet this request the Joint Chiefs recommended only the items which they agreed were most important. Originally these items were to have been added to the fiscal year 1959 budget, but McElroy instead secured Eisenhower’s approval to submit them to Congress in January 1958 as a supplemental appropriation for fiscal year 1958. This supplemental request totaled $1,270 million, of which $910 million was allocated to the Air Force. Much of the funding was designed to provide the Strategic Air Command with warning, dispersal, and alert facilities and additional personnel to stand the alerts. Of the $1,270 million, $219 million was to accelerate the SAC dispersal and alert program, $329 million was allocated to the construction of a ballistic missile detection system, and $683 million was requested to permit acceleration of the Atlas, Thor, Jupiter, and Polaris programs. In his original submission of items for the added program, White asked the Joint Chiefs to approve the construction of new bases for tanker aircraft in Canada and the Arctic; the Joint Chiefs, however, did not accept this request as a priority item and accordingly did not include it in the supplemental request for fiscal year 1958 funds.  The subject of aircraft modernization plans for the Strate