s of  152  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 174 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  Europe—Overlord on the Normandy coast and Anvil in southern France (tentatively set for May or June 1944) — might not be possible unless immediate efforts were made to establish air superiority.  In the United Kingdom, General Eaker was under pressure to abandon daylight bombing and convert to night attacks. However, he believed that a climax was approaching in the air war, and he asked Arnold to send him every available fighter, thus abandoning the idea of unescorted bombers. Eaker also asked the AAF Board to study his problem and recommend solutions. In December 1943 the AAF Board recommended that immediate efforts be made to provide pressurized, droppable fuel tanks to extend the range of P-51 Mustang and P-38 Lightning aircraft. The North American Aviation Company had developed the P-51 on its own initiative. The British had purchased some Mustangs, while the Army Air Forces had bought some for use as A-36 dive-bombers. But even though other agencies had liked the P-51 before this, not until the AAF Board focused its attention on the Mustang, was it developed and procured in quantity as a high-performance, long-range fighter that would accompany bombers to any target in Germany. Meanwhile, on 1 January 1944, General Spaatz was given command of both the Eighth Air Force and the Fifteenth Air Force. And between October 1943 and February 1944 the number of heavy bombardment groups operating against Germany increased from 26 to 48. Thus, the strategic air forces gained in numbers at the same time that they got P-47 and P-51 fighters for escort and the command structure became more open to fighter protection.  "It is a conceded fact," General Arnold told the commanders of the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces on 27 December 1943, "that Overlord and Anvil will not be possible unless the German Air Force is destroyed. Therefore, my personal message to you — this is a MUST — is to, ‘Dest