argets from bases in the United States.!? B-29s and improved B-50s were already in the Strategic Air Command inventory, but these planes lacked the range to strike deep in Soviet targets and return. The Air Force had two jet strategic bombers under contemplation. In 1944 in response to a requirement, the Boeing Company had developed the six-jet, medium-range B-47. In 1946 Boeing had won the design contest for an intercontinental jet bomber that would be designated as the B-52. But, with available power plants and a requirement for built-in intercontinental range in its design stage, the B-52 was threatening to become even larger than the B-36.1? Recognizing that Air Force bombers lacked global range, Col Dale O. Smith suggested in an article published in the autumn of 1947 that the Air Force might prepare its crews to fly one-way atomic combat missions. Smith suggested that the crews would have a good chance to evade and survive. Such blitz tactics would rapidly expend the bomber force, but Smith thought that there "seems to be little doubt that the nation making the first atomic bomb strike in force will be the victor."  In an effort to clear up indecision within the Air Force regarding the strategic bomber program, General Spaatz formed a Heavy Bombardment Committee on 9 September 1947 with representatives from the Air Staff, the Strategic Air Command, the Air University, and the Air Materiel Command, and charged it to study "methods of and instrumentalities for air delivery of individual and mass atomic attacks against any potential enemy from bases within the continental United States." In its discussions, the bombardment committee shared the current concern that the B-36 might not have as good a chance to penetrate as would faster medium bombers. Based on this belief, the committee sought means to extend the range of medium bombers. General Kenney had already urged the development of tracked landing gears that would enable his bombers to operate from hastily pr