Air Force receive an additional $800 million to enable it to maintain 57 effective combat groups. Two days later, Chairman George H. Mahon of the House Subcommittee on Armed Services Appropriations stated that Congress had already taken the initiative to provide a 70-group program, and he recommended that Congress increase the Air Force appropriation by about $1 billion so that the Air Force could maintain about 60 groups. ° With such an amount of money, the Air Force proposed to add six strategic bomber groups, thus restoring the Strategic Air Command to its strength under the proposed 70-group structure, and to maintain three fighter, one light bomber, and one troop carrier group in order to support the Army! After exhaustive debate, Congress finally added more than $726 million to the Air Force appropriation for fiscal year 1950.2  At the same time that the fiscal year 1950 budget was under consideration in Congress, the Department of Defense had already begun to make its estimates for the 1951 budget. On 21 January 1949 Forrestal brought General Eisenhower back to Washington on temporary duty to work with the Joint Chiefs of Staff in the preparation of a war plan that he hoped would be the basis of future budgets. In preparing for the 1951 budget, Forrestal directed each service chief to review his portion of the war plan and state the forces that would be required. These force levels then were costed for budgetary purposes. Following the same procedure used the year before, the Joint Chiefs established a budget advisory group and headed it with Vice Adm Robert B. Carney. Assisted by the plans staffs on the three services, the Carney group took longer than expected in its deliberations and was unable to provide unanimous recommendations to the Joint Chiefs. Increasingly fatigued by his duties, Forrestal arranged to resign. President Truman requested that he introduce Louis A. Johnson to the duties of secretary of defense. Accompanied by Johnson, Forrestal took t