vided into a strategic and a tactical air force. As assistant chief of air staff for plans, Brig Gen Orvil Anderson urged that offensive air power ought not to be divided, and he maintained that the same air weapon system which fought through the decisive phase of a war ought to be available for subsequent exploitating operations, including all-out support of land operations. Since General Arnold, on the other hand, wished to ensure a freedom of action for the strategic air force, he was willing to provide the tactical air force in order to free the strategic air force from a routine requirement to support ground forces.* Brig Gen Laurence Kuter, who returned from a tour of duty as deputy commander, Northwest African Tactical Air Force, and became assistant chief of air staff for plans on 15 May 1943, actively supported the concept ofa tactical air force. "It is the pattern of the future," Kuter wrote, "the way in which air power in collaboration with armies in the field will beat the enemy and win the war."  In response to an air force request, the War Department, on 9 June 1943, named Col Morton H. McKinnon (commandant of the Air Support Department of the School of Applied Tactics), Col Ralph F. Stearley (commander of the I Air Support Command), and Lt Col Orin H. Moore (armored force liaison officer at AAF Headquarters) as a board to revise official doctrine in the light of theater-proven operations. Working intimately with the General Staff G-3 Division, this board of officers produced, in three weeks’ time, War Department Field Manual 100-20,  137  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 159 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Command and Employment of Air Power, which was published on 21 July 1943. The new manual advocated centralized control of air power. "The inherent flexibility of air power," stated the manual,  is its greatest asset. This flexibility makes it possible to employ the whole weight of the available air power against selected areas in turn; su