iam L. Kenly, and to the Bureau of Aircraft Production, headed by John D. Ryan, who continued to be chairman of the Aircraft Production Board.”  In Europe much of the same confusion as was occurring in Washington marked the organization of the Air Service, American Expeditionary Forces. Promoted to colonel, Mitchell served as air officer, AEF, until 3 September 1917, when Pershing installed General Kenly as chief of air service, AEF, and made Mitchell air service commander, Zone of Advance. On 27 November, General Foulois, accompanied by a headquarters staff, arrived in Paris with orders to relieve General Kenly, who returned to the United States. Mitchell had respected General Kenly, but he  21  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 43 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  referred to the Foulois staff as "carpetbaggers." General Pershing described the officers who came to France with Foulois as "good men running around in circles." In an effort to restore order, Pershing, on 29 May 1918, finally installed an engineer officer and West Point classmate, Brig Gen Mason M. Patrick, as chief of air service, AEF. At this time, Foulois was appointed chief of air service, First Army, but he instead asked to serve as assistant to Patrick and recommended Mitchell for the combat position, to which Mitchell was assigned on 27 July 1918. Thereafter, new combat air posts were formed as new Army organizations reached France. In October 1918, Col Frank P. Lahm became chief of air service, Second Army. Relieved by Col Thomas D. Milling at First Army in October, Mitchell was promoted to brigadier general and appointed chief of air service, Army Group.”  The priority task of the Air Service, AEF, was to provide the trained air units that were assigned to US divisions, corps, and armies as they arrived in France. As an integral combat arm of the ground forces, the air units assigned to the front were commanded, in the full sense of the word, by the commanding generals of the armies, c