object of the Air Force.  3. Missiles, as they are perfected, will supplement and complement the manned aircraft. However, to preserve the required capability and flexibility of operations, it is essential that the Air Force maintain a significant force of manned aircraft during the foreseeable future.  4. The Air Force has and is continuing to develop missiles for use in the strategic, tactical and air defense roles as fast as technology and the availability of funds will permit.  5. As rapidly as missiles become operationally suitable, they will be phased into units either to completely or partially substitute for manned aircraft according to military requirements. 1  During the 1950s General LeMay had demanded that new weapon systems not be assigned to the Strategic Air Command until they were operationally perfected. In view of this demand as well as in an effort to provide the earliest initial operational capability for intercontinental ballistic missiles, the Air Force had assigned the whole responsibility of readying missile squadrons to the Air Research and Development Command on 18 November 1955. Seeking to compress time schedules to the maximum, the Western Development Division and its successor, the Air Force Ballistic Missile Division, instituted a new concept of concurrent development whereby operating personnel were trained, base facilities were built, and the missiles were developed and tested all at the same time.“ Several factors impeded this concurrent development planning. Base construction funds were hard to come by and the siting of IRBMs in NATO countries required intergovernmental negotiations. In 1956 Secretary Quarles directed a "poor man’s approach" or a stretch-out of programs to save funds. Planning had to be coordinated with SAC and LeMay opposed any rigid initial operational capability plans that might freeze designs and commit missiles to quantity production before a first missile had been tested. Work, nevertheless, was begun on a "so