ilitary decision, and if he can get unanimous opinion from the Joint Chiefs, fine: if he cannot, then he forces the issue and makes the decision himself, if necessary." General White pointed out that the secretary of defense already turned to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs for advice in cases of split decisions. A single chief of staff would provide prompt decisions but less certainly wise decisions, since differing points of view would not be made known to civilian authorities.*! As he had done before, Admiral Burke bitterly opposed a single chief of staff who might become a military dictator if he were a strong man or a"yes man" if he were weak.** In response to a request for their opinions, General Spaatz and Fleet Adm Chester W. Nimitz offered exactly opposite views. Spaatz urged that a "simple efficient system" of a single chief of staff and a competent joint staff was required to direct "a complex military organization." "The Supreme Commander in the Washington area," Nimitz thought, "is the President as Commander in Chief, and any proposal to set up somebody else as a single commander between him and the forces in the field is totally wrong."  Still new to the responsibilities of the Office of Secretary of Defense, Neil H. McElroy remarked that he could have used "just a little bit more time to get acquainted with all my surroundings" before undertaking a reorganization of the Department of Defense, but President Eisenhower’s State of the Union address of 9 January 1958 indicated an immediate need for action. To head the reorganization project, McElroy secured the services of Charles S. Coolidge, whom he appointed special assistant for reorganization. He also established a consultative group, including General Twining as incumbent chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen Omar N. Bradley and Adm Arthur W. Radford as former chairmen of the Joint Chiefs, William C. Foster as a former deputy secretary of defense, Nelson A. Rockefeller as chairman of the Presi