ected that the Evaluation Division monitor and evaluate such projects, which would be carried out in the Air University’s schools and colleges. He specifically directed the Air War College to revise the field manual and to recommend a system of doctrinal publications." During his tenure as founding commandant of the Air War College, Maj Gen Orvil Anderson frequently had student seminars study and report on major air problems, and he used this procedure to handle the doctrinal projects.  On 16 September 1947 two Air War College seminars began working on the assigned problems. In its report on 19 December, a seminar headed by Col W. M. Garland recommended that the Air Force develop a single integrated publications  367  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 389 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  system under the Office of the Vice Chief of Staff. The seminar suggested that the old Army system of disseminating doctrine in field manuals and technical manuals had been too rigid and had never provided a comprehensive coverage. The Navy’s US fleet series appeared more acceptable as a model for the Air Force. The seminar, therefore, proposed that the Air Force ought to use a series of "air employment instructions" that would promulgate the concepts of the roles and objectives of air power in national security, the principles and doctrines of command and employment of the Air Force in peace and war, and the strategy, tactics, and techniques of Air Force operations. Published under the authority of the chief of staff, these air employment instructions would "constitute essential guides" and would "reflect the most logical current thought in the employment of air power," but they would not seek "to suppress initiative or to establish a set formula for air warfare." The air employment instructions should be divided into three general categories. Category 1 would comprise a basic book on air power. Category 2 would outline in general terms the application of fundamental principles an