ho was promoted to colonel and served both as amember of the committee and as chief of the AAF Operations Analysis Division, provided general guidance to the buildup of some 17 operations analysis sections throughout the Air Force. By the end of the war more than 400 civilian and military analysts were serving in the Air Force. These operations analysts, most of whom were civilian specialists, followed "a considered policy of keeping very quiet — not asking for recognition, not claiming credit for accomplishments, not getting publicity." The operations analysis sections lent their peculiar skills to such command problems as bomb and fuze selection, bombing accuracy, battle damage and loss, and general mission analysis. The memorandum reports of each operations analysis section were forwarded to Washington and were circulated to interested commands. At the IX Bomber Command in Europe, for example, three operations analysts prepared a basic aerial gunnery manual, called "Get That Fighter," that was eventually adopted for use in the Army Air Forces, the Navy, and the Chinese air force. The operations analysts dealt with many of the same problems that the AAF Board was charged to consider, but the principal difference was that the operations analysis sections were prepared to solve problems on the spot in combat theaters. On some occasions the findings of the operations analysis section disagreed with those of the AAF Board. On 18 October 1944, for example, the AAF Board issued what it considered to be a definitive doctrine on weapons selection entitled "Selection of Bombs and Fuzes for Destruction of Bombardment Targets." But air force commanders preferred to follow the recommendations of their own operations analysis sections, which were in serious conflict with the board recommendations.”  In its initial report on the strategic vulnerability of Germany to air attack, the Committee of Operations Analysts recommended, on 8 March 1943, making a continuing analysis of th