surprise and general technical superiority will always be decisive . . . DECISIVE technical superiority INTIME OF WAR will goto the side which most rapidly and exhaustively transforms new technical developments into pieces of battlespace equipment IN TIME OF PEACE." He was certain that necessary long-range planning and more effective utilization of specialized personnel, critical facilities, and limited funds could come only through more centralized Air Staff control over research and development activities.!  When Vandenberg asked for guidance on research and development from retired Gen James H. Doolittle, he got much the same opinion that he had received from Dr von Karman. "Everyone is for research and development," Doolittle shrewdly observed, "just as everyone is against sin. However, very few people will sacrifice it.""4 Believing that some constructive action was necessary, Vandenberg asked the Air University to make a study of the research and development structure of the Air Force. In a companion effort on 7 April, General Fairchild asked the USAF Scientific Advisory Board to give him advice on the same problem. Maj Gen Orvil Anderson headed the Air University study committee and von Karman named Dr Louis N. Ridenour to head the Scientific Advisory Board’s special committee on research and development. The two groups worked closely together during the summer of 1949; the Ridenour committee submitted its report on 21 September and the Air University committee sent forward its recommendations, including a review of the Ridenour report, on 19 November.  "Any war which we can now foresee," the Ridenour committee stated, "will be an inter-continental war, and we must presume that in such a conflict the Air Force would play a major role, since naval blockade would be ineffective and land  276  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 298 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  invasion against an unweakened enemy would be hazardous in the extreme. .. . Even more important... is