eas by merely flying over them with the type aircraft and type defenses that will be related to each other in the future. ... Sowe do not think that the term “air superiority" as it was applied in 1945 could well be applied to the future.  Gavin also stated that surface-to-air fire in World War II and in the Korean conflict had been a principal destroyer of aircraft, and he noted that the Army’s new family of "very effective" surface-to-air Nike missiles promised to increase aircraft kills at the same time that the increasing speeds of aircraft reduced the effectiveness of  456  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 478 --- STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS  air-to-air combat. "We see emerging a pattern," Gavin said, "that suggests clearly that control of land areas will be decisive."  Other Army officers—including Maj Gen Earle G. Wheeler, the Army’s director of plans, and Maj Gen Hamilton H. Howze, director of Army aviation — discussed concepts of future land warfare, which would be characterized by wide dispersal of units and installations, ground and air mobility, firepower of increased range and lethality, and efficient and reliable communications. The Army intended to develop its own organic capability for air movements of Army combat units within the combat zone; but its interest also extended to four elements of air power that were beyond its organic resources: control of the air in the battle area, long-range deployment, intratheater airlift, and aircraft firepower. To attain "areasonable degree of freedom from attack by enemy aircraft," the Army intended to depend upon air and naval forces, together with its own organic antiaircraft weapons. To place fire on targets beyond the range of organic weapons, the Army "presently has a direct interest in firepower delivered from aircraft." "As we integrate rockets and missiles into the Army fire support system," the Army briefer added, "we are increasingly able to provide much of this needed fire support with our organic weap