nstructions should be divided into three general categories. Category 1 would comprise a basic book on air power. Category 2 would outline in general terms the application of fundamental principles and basic doctrines of employment to specific operational fields of Air Force endeavor — for example, strategic air operations. Category3 would deal with the operations, tactics, and techniques of type units of the Air Force, such as the tactics and techniques of fighter escort. Immediate responsibility for stating requirements for air employment instructions and for ensuring that they were properly revised would rest with the Air Force deputy chief of staff for operations. The seminar recommended that the air employment instructions be issued in loose-leaf binders so that they might be revised easily.  The Air University accepted the requirement for such series of doctrinal publications, but it was not willing to limit the series to purely operational matters since it believed that the Air Force would need to express doctrine in administrative, logistics, communications, intelligence, and related special staff fields. Accordingly, on 5 February 1948 the Air University recommended that the air employment instructions should include three somewhat different categories from those proposed by the Air War College. Category 1 would continue to be the basic volume entitled "Air Power." Category 2 would be called "The Commander’s Guide," and its single volume of seven books would include statements of Air Force operations in general and in strategic applications, joint endeavors, air defense, air transport, air reconnaissance, and special activities. Category 3 would be "The Group and Squadron Commander’s Handbook," and its single volume of six books would deal with the tactical group and squadron and the tactics and techniques of bombardment, fighters, reconnaissance, air transport, and special air units. The Air University noted that "the interested agency on the highest level