he requirement for expanding the number of B-52 wings, particularly since the aircraft complement of each of the 11 B-52 wings was being expanded from 30 to 45 aircraft. As a result, the Air Force budget for fiscal year 1958 visualized the already approved 11 wings of B-52s. Twining accepted this decision with evident reluctance. "If the enemy continues his building program of long-range bombers," he warned, "we will again examine the size of our B-52 force." Given this shift to the B-52, the Strategic Air Command divested itself of its fighters. In the first half of 1957, SAC transferred its four most experienced strategic fighter wings to the Tactical Air Command and inactivated its other strategic fighter wing and the strategic fighter reconnaissance wing.>°  At the same time that he sought additional intercontinental bombers to program against an increasing number of targets in an increasingly severe. defense environment, LeMay subscribed to the concept that defined a deterrent force as "an effective nuclear offensive force which is secure from destruction by the enemy regardless of what offensive and defensive action he takes against it.""”’ At its establishment, the Strategic Air Command had inherited many bases in the United States that had been built in good-weather areas for use in training units that would fight overseas. Most of these bases were thus in the southern part of the United States and were poorly located for transpolar intercontinental air missions. During the 137-wing expansion, moreover, nearly all SAC bases had to accommodate two wings. Even with in-flight refueling, the medium-range B-47s had to be programmed to conduct their offensive strikes from bases in Europe or in the Pacific, bases which were hazarded by Soviet Tu-16 Badgers during the middle 1950s and would soon be covered by Soviet intermediate range ballistic missiles. 8 Seeking to provide increased security and to compound the enemy’s offensive force requirement, General LeMay re