o be reflected in training and procurement programs. General Fairchild had under him Air Defense, Bombardment, Ground Support, War Organization and Movement, Base Services, and Individual Training divisions. The directors of air defense, bombardment, and ground support, which were usually called "type" directorates because they were concerned with types of aviation, were to be experts in their respective classes of aviation and were charged with development of tactics and techniques for their specialties. The director of individual training was charged with directing, supervising, and giving final approval to Army Air Forces training literature.® Since so much experience was now concentrated in the Directorate of Military Requirements, the Air Corps Board at Eglin Field was inactivated when the Army regulation that authorized it was rescinded on 20 May 1942. The Air Corps Tactical School was suspended as an active unit on 24 June 1942, and the people in its Training Literature Unit were integrated into the Training Aids Section of the Individual Training Division.  Although the War Department reorganization removed responsibility for operational planning from the Army Air Forces, President Franklin D. Roosevelt asked General Arnold on 24 August 1942 to submit his judgment as to which combat aircraft should be produced in 1943 in order to gain complete air ascendancy over the enemy. Such a judgment could not be divorced from operational planning, although it had to follow approved strategy and, thus, define the air mission in terms of cooperation with surface campaigns. Brig Gen Laurence S. Kuter, now deputy chief of air staff, Brig Gen Orvil A. Anderson, chief of air plans, and Brig Gen Haywood S. Hansell, who had been named deputy commander of the Eighth Air Force, undertook the study, which, when completed on 9 September 1942, was entitled AWPD-42, Requirements for Air Ascendancy.?° Requirements were based on air operations visualized for 1943 and early 1944 to in