ers doubted that the Kremlin would attempt any overt aggression until it was better prepared for the contingency that local war might spread into general war.  When the State Department planners had outlined foreign policy objectives, the determination of the alternatives permitted by the US military posture concerned both the State and Defense members of the ad hoc study group. One alternative was to continue with limited military forces. This course had already proven unsatisfactory. In the summer of 1949, when the Policy Planning Staff had queried the Joint Strategic Survey as to whether it was necessary to attain air superiority prior to the mounting of a strategic air offensive, it had been told that air superiority was essential but simply could not be planned for within a $13-billion military budget. Another equally unsatisfactory course was to sacrifice foreign commitments and to withdraw US power to the Western Hemisphere. A third alternative was to take advantage of the available nuclear stockpile and initiate hostilities as soon as possible. The fourth alternative recommended by the group was to initiate an immediate large-scale buildup of American and allied military and general strength in order to develop an adequate power shield under which the United States could both resist local Soviet aggressions and deter general war, while concurrently developing means other than all-out war that would eventually achieve a modification in the nature of the Soviet regime. In mid-March the ad hoc group circulated its paper through the Pentagon, where it was endorsed by the three service secretaries and the members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. On 12 April, President Truman tentatively approved it by referring it to the National Security Council, which would estimate the programs and costs necessary to implement the recommendations. Handling the paper as NSC-68, the National Security Council soon estimated that the expanded military program would cost about $50 bil