), 2d (Will Rogers Field, Oklahoma), 3d (Savannah, Georgia), 4th (Hamilton Field, California), and 5th (Bowman Field, Kentucky) air support commands. These commands were to support the four continental armies and the armored force. They were immediately charged to organize parent groups for all observation squadrons. While the groups would continue to be assigned to armies, corps, and armored forces, they would be detached from the ground forces for a considerable portion of each year in order that the air support commands might superintend their basic air training.’  Early AAF Organization for Basic Thinking  With the expansion of the Air Corps after 1939, the capabilities and functions of the Air Corps Board were progressively reduced and eventually dissipated. Following the successful completion of Field Manual 10-5, Employment of the Aviation of the Army, in the winter of 1939-40, the War Department and the Office of the Chief of the Air Corps charged the board to produce manuals on tactics and techniques concerned with air attack, air fighting, air reconnaissance and observation, air navigation, aerial photography, combat intelligence, and signal communications — the whole task to be completed not later than 1 June 1940. Since preparing of the manuals was only a part of the small Air Corps Board’s mission of tactical testing and developing, it had depended heavily upon the Air Corps Tactical School for much of its pick-and-shovel work. During the school year 1939-40, however, the Tactical School ran four accelerated courses, each for 100 officers, and had little time to assist the board. In the winter of 1939-40, moreover, several officers of the board completed their tours at Maxwell and other experienced officers preferred command assignments to the often discouraging work on the board. Recognizing that Lt Col Edgar P. Sorenson, who took over as Air Corps Board director in January 1940, faced personnel difficulties, the Air Corps directed him to use Air Corps