lson frankly expected that interservice competition would continue. Nevertheless, he felt that this interservice rivalry would hasten the development of an intermediate range missile. Wilson realized that this duplication of effort would increase the expense to the nation. At the same time that he established the Ballistic Missiles Committee, Wilson created the Air Force Ballistic Missile Committee and the Joint Army-Navy Ballistic Missile Committee.”  Recognizing that the Soviets would score a tremendous advantage if they placed intercontinental ballistic missiles into operation before the United States possessed a similar capability, Trevor Gardner stated "that we had to get that weapon first." The Air Force did not want anything to interfere with the development of intercontinental missiles. Gardner recorded that the immediate effect of the effort to produce an intermediate range missile would be to establish a competition for hardware, people, money, and facilities that might well jeopardize the Air Force’s objective of attaining a strategic missile capability at an early date. He also described Wilson’s directive as "causing committees to be born at a rather rapid rate. Those of us who had been running the program found [that] we were now working part time for committees and spending large fractions of our time . . . justifying ourselves before these various committees at the Secretary of Defense level and within the Air Force." Convinced that "current budgets in research and development would not permit us to remain technically superior to the Russians in airpower," lacking "sympathy with the kind of organization that was set up to manage the ballistic-missile activity," and "alarmed that the total Air Force budget would simply guarantee us the second best Air Force in the future," Gardner resigned as assistant secretary of the Air Force for research and development and presented his views in a series of magazine articles early in 1956.” Viewing the Wilson dec