ce in February 1958, General White indicated that he had given thought to the space-for-peace policy and to means whereby control might be exercised in space. White said:  The United States must win and maintain the capability to control space in order to assure the progress and preeminence of the free nations. ...  You will note that I stated the United States must win and maintain the capability to control space. I did not say that we should control space. There is an important distinction here. We want all nations to join with us in such measures as are necessary to ensure that outer space shall never be used for any but peaceful purposes. But until effective measures to this end are assured, our possession of such a capability will guarantee the free nations liberty. It does not connote denial of the benefits of space to others.  In the past, when control of the seas was exercised by peaceful nations, people everywhere profited. Likewise, as long as the United States maintains the capability to control space, the entire world will reap the benefits that accrue. ...  There has been some discussion concerning whether or not the military should handle all United States activities in space. Under our form of government, I do not feel that this is really a problem. Over-all civilian control will be exercised, and rightly so. However, space research and development efforts and space operations must give due consideration to the military aspects.  This is necessary because until other ironclad methods are devised, only through our military capability to control space will we be able to use space for peaceful purposes. I  visualize the control of space as the late twentieth century parallel to the age-old need to control the seas and the mid-twentieth century requirement to control the air... .  551  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 573 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  To control space we must not only be able to go through it with vehicles that travel from po