ork in the European theater, President Harry S Truman asked D’Olier to head a group that would conduct a joint Army-Navy analysis of the air war against Japan. Truman directed that the Japanese survey would be given help by the secretary of the Navy, thus making it a joint function, although still to be controlled by the civilian chairman and his associates. Paul Nitze, who had directed the equipment and utilities division of the survey, became acting vice-chairman under D’Olier. Many of the same civilian directors agreed to serve in the Pacific; the military advisers included General Anderson, Rear Adm Ralph A. Ofstie, Maj Gen Leslie R. Groves, and Brig Gen Grandison Gardner. Some 485 individuals were on the roster of the Pacific survey. By 3 October 1945 the survey and its detachments were located in Tokyo and in other places throughout Japan.  In analyzing the Pacific war, the United States Strategic Bombing Survey depended heavily upon interrogations of more than 700 Japanese government, military, and civilian leaders. And, while many records had been destroyed, the survey was able to secure reasonably accurate statistics on Japan’s economy and war production. After a hard-hitting, fast-moving field investigation, D’Olier and Nitze returned to Washington on 5 December. The key survey personnel assembled there early in January 1946 to complete the 108 volumes of evaluation on the Pacific war that would be published. In view of the great public interest in atomic warfare, Truman decided to receive and to release the Pacific survey’s principal reports personally and directed that the three principal reports be coordinated with the State Department. During July 1946 Truman released the Pacific survey’s three main reports: Summary Report (Pacific War), Japan’s Struggle to End the War, and The Effects of Atomic Bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. 2  145  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 167 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Wartime Air Doctrine Development Phase