ht to unify all of its air transport organizations.! In October 1950, the Army Field Forces were reported to oppose any move to remove troop carrier aviation from the tactical air forces and to place it in a consolidated air transport command.” General Cannon also strongly opposed such a move. "Troop carrier units," Cannon insisted, "are combat units. The aircraft used by these units are weapons of war, just as are fighter-bombers, submarines, and tanks; therefore, troop carrier aviation is tactical aviation, and tactical aviation only. Any proposal to merge troop carrier and all air transport units into one air transport organization is basically in error in that it combines combat functions with service functions."  Although the Air Force seriously considered the prospects for consolidating air transport and troop carrier aviation, final decisions allowed troop carrier units to remain under the Tactical Air Command and military air transport under the Military Air Transport Service. Effective 28 March 1951, the Tactical Air Command organized the Eighteenth Air Force to take over the training of all troop carrier wings in the zone of interior.)>’ Although no change was made in basic organization, the experience of the Korean hostilities was such as to cause both the Army and Air Force to accord great importance to transport aviation. General Collins seldom made a speech without referring to the importance of airborne operations and of making the Army as air transportable as possible.18 General Vandenberg pointed out that the Air Force was forced to prestock critical supplies  311  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 333 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  in overseas areas, a practice that not only was expensive but also committed the striking forces to operate from bases that might be denied to them at the outset of a war. "Airlift on the scale we visualize," Vandenberg said, "would make it possible to move logistic support with and as the bombers move. If the