the fact that the national military budget was being prepared in terms of ceilings worked out by the Treasury and the Bureau of the Budget rather than in terms of the nation’s risks and foreign policy requirements. "The first duty of our Government," he said, "is to provide for the national defense. I am less fearful of deficit financing than I am of the designs of the Russians." Vinson told Secretary Johnson that he felt that Congress and the American people believed that the nation required a 58-group Air Force!  Although the House Committee on Armed Services favored an expansion of the Air Force, the committee’s formal report on the unification and strategy investigation made on 1 March 1950 explicitly endorsed strategic pluralism in defense organization. Speaking of strategy, the committee concluded that "the basic reason for this continuing disagreement is a genuine inability for these  257  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 279 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  services to agree, fundamentally and professionally, on the art of warfare. ... Of course, with the views so sharply opposed, both services cannot be right; the committee suspects that both are right — and that both are wrong. The true answer probably lies somewhere in the gulf between the two." Especially in the early stages of unification before the esprit of a single armed forces had developed, the committee expressed "strong doubts that it is a service to the Nation’s defense for the military leaders of the respective services to pass judgment jointly on the technical fitness of either new or old weapons each service wishes to develop to carry out its assigned missions." Holding that "military air power consists of Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps air power, and of this, strategic bombing is but one phase," the committee expressed an intention to examine any proposals for reducing the size of Marine aviation very closely, deplored the manner in which the construction of the USS United State