d to head the Bureau of Aircraft Production, all Army aviation affairs were in theory under one civilian head. This reorganization, however, had hardly taken effect before the Armistice brought Ryan’s resignation, leaving all the offices he had held vacant. In January 1919 Maj Gen Charles T. Menoher, a nonflying officer who had commanded the 42d (Rainbow) Division and the VI Army Corps in France, was appointed director of air service. On 19 March 1919 President Woodrow Wilson signed an executive order that dissolved the old Aircraft Production Board and placed the Bureau of Aircraft Production immediately under the director of air service. This executive action finally united all Army aviation functions in the Air Service, but President Wilson had acted under wartime reorganizational authority and the final status of the Air Service would have to be enacted into law by Congress.  Desiring that the lessons of World War I should be recorded promptly by the leaders who had participated in field operations, General Pershing on 19 April 1919 convened a superior board in Paris under the presidency of Maj Gen Joseph T. Dickman to review the findings of boards of senior officers to be appointed from each branch of the American Expeditionary Forces, including the Air Service. The report of the Air Service Board headed by General Foulois was generally conservative and recommended that most of the Air Service should be assigned to armies, corps, and divisions. The report, nevertheless, proposed that a separate general headquarters (GHQ) reserve be created. This air reserve would be no smaller than an aerial division, comprised of a bombing brigade (a night-bombing wing and a day-bombing wing) and a pursuit brigade (two day wings) plus a 10-percent reserve of all units assigned to armies, corps, and divisions. But General Patrick took exception with the Foulois board’s insisting that the prime function of the Air Service was to obtain and transmit information, that the prime fu