ecretary Patterson wrote: "Air power tipped the scales for victory in the war." But in November 1947 he stated: "World War II was not won in the air alone. It was won by the combined effort of ground forces, sea forces and air forces, working as members of a single team."!  168  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 190 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  The team concept of Allied victory in World War II was strongly supported by high-ranking Army officers. "The national security is measured by the sum, or rather the combination of the three great arms, the land, air, and naval forces," General Marshall stated in October 1945.!°8 "In my opinion," said Gen Omar Bradley in November 1945, "no one service won this war or is going to win any future war of any magnitude. It takes all our services together, plus the industrial effort of our Nation to win any major war." To illustrate his point, Bradley granted that air attacks cut down the employment of German V-2 rockets against England, but he invited attention to the fact "that not until the Navy and the Army forces got together and went over and captured the launching sites did the V-2 attacks completely come to a stop."1°9 As chief of the War Department Plans and Policy Group in February 1947, Brig Gen George A. Lincoln argued that World War II had demonstrated that air power was a dominant factor in war and peace but that it had also taught that a tremendous hidden Army and Navy effort was required "to make air power effective over the target." This effort included air-ground battles required to seize and hold air bases needed to put air power over its target. "The war also illustrated," as Secretary of the Army Kenneth C. Royall stated in December 1947, "that final victory had to be won by tanks, guns and men, on the ground." Allied forces, Royall continued, "never stopped the launching of the V-bombs, and never engaged in any material damage to them or to the submarine pens, until the infantry did so from the ground,