imited wars but was instead bending every effort to develop long-range air and rocket forces, which in a few years might well exceed the strength of the strategic forces of the United States. At the height of the Suez Canal crisis, in early November 1956, the Soviets threatened to use nuclear-armed intermediate range ballistic missiles against France and Britain. Earlier Air Force thinking about limited war had assumed that Soviet forces would not be directly employed in peripheral undertakings. By November 1956, however, Air Force planners could visualize a local war in which "the opposing side will have the full backing of the USSR, with, actually or potentially, very large forces equipped with the most modern weapons, and with the capability of using atomic weapons." "The threat of limited war has increased," Twining stated in February 1957, "because the Soviets have acquired a greater capability to wage general war, and can, therefore, undertake limited aggression with less fear of total retaliation."»"®  In several speeches delivered during October 1956, Air Force Secretary Donald Quarles professed to find it hard to understand how the United States could successfully deter general war without also being able to deter or win little wars. "It seems logical," he said, "if we have the strength required for global war we could  451  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 473 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  handle any threat of lesser magnitude. .. . From now on, potential aggressors must reckon with the air-atomic power which can be brought to bear immediately in whatever strength, and against whatever targets, may! be necessary to make such an attack completely unprofitable to the aggressor.""’” In February 1957 General Twining pointed out that all of the armed forces of the United States could be called upon to provide forces to resist local aggression and to end it quickly before it could spread. "If we wanted to," he added, "we could even use part of the s