vement could not be attained in the Japanese case. Whether or not Japan could be brought to surrender by air attack, Japanese resistance would have to be drastically reduced through a sustained bombing effort if an invasion of the Japanese homeland was to be feasible. Thus, a first priority would have to be given to the development and employment of air forces to conduct a sustained offensive against the Japanese homeland.  The second part of the planning controversy had to do with the prospective employment of the new B-29 Superfortress bombers that had been bought from blueprints and would be service-tested in combat beginning in 1944, With General MacArthur’s support, Lt Gen George C. Kenney wanted to station the B-29s at Darwin, Australia, and employ them against strategic targets in the Netherlands East Indies. But General Arnold was determined that the B-29 force would be used against targets in or adjacent to the Japanese home islands. In March 1943 AAP/ACS Plans had begun to study a project for using B-29s against Japan from bases in south-central China. Arnold also had asked the Committee of Operations Analysts to analyze potential strategic targets in Japan. The Sextant conference approved this planning in December 1943, agreeing that the Matterhorn project would include the construction of bases near Calcutta, India, and at Chengtu, China, for the USAAF XX Bomber Command and two wings of B-29s. The Committee of Operations Analysts recommended that merchant shipping, steel production, urban industrial areas, aircraft plants, the antifriction bearing industry, and the electronics industry as preferred targets for the B-29s. The committee believed that these B-29 missions could immobilize Japan’s steel production by destroying a few coke plants in Manchuria and Japan. It also pointed out that Japan’s urban industrial areas were few, concentrated, and very vulnerable to incendiary attack,1%  159  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 181 --- IDEAS, CON