r."*? In an appearance before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on 20 March, Dulles emphasized that collective defense would be the companion of the capability for massive retaliation. "No single nation," he said, "can develop alone adequate power to deter Soviet block aggression against vital interests. By providing joint facilities and by combining their resources, the free nations can achieve a total strength and a flexibility which can surpass that of any potential enemy and can do so at bearable cost." ° While flying home from the Berlin conference, Dulles wrote an article which he considered to be a "more polished . .. restatement" of his earlier address in New York. Published in Foreign Affairs, this article denied that "the United States intended to rely wholly on large-scale strategic bombing as the sole means to deter and counter aggression." He continued: "A potential of massive attack will always be kept in a state of instant readiness and our programme will retain a wide variety and the means and scope for responding to aggression. .. . The essential thing is that a potential aggressor should know in advance that he can and will be made to suffer for his aggression more than he can possibly gain by it. This calls for a system in which local defensive strength is reinforced by more mobile deterrent power. The method of doing so will vary according to the character of the various areas. Some areas are so vital that special guards should and could be put around them — Western Europe is such an area."*!  If Dulles had hoped that the massive retaliation address would help shore up the policy vacuum in Southeast Asia, such was not to be the case. Spurred into an all-out field campaign when the Berlin conference provided them with a timetable, the Vietminh laid siege to a substantial French garrison at Dien Bien Phu, in northwest Vietnam. While Dulles had anticipated that the Vietminh might attempt  429  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 451 --