unt of time that had been required to publish the basic doctrine manual. "It has taken the Air Force five tedious years," he pointed out to Lt Gen Thomas D. White, Air Force deputy chief of staff for operations, on 27 March, "to get an approved manual on basic air force doctrine." The many rewritings of the manual had resulted "in no change of importance in the doctrine. The changes were in what to include or exclude, how to express an idea, arrangement of subject matter." At such a rate of progress, Barker estimated that 15-20 years would be required to publish the remaining doctrinal manuals. He  393  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 415 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  again recommended that the Air University commander be authorized to approve and publish Air Force manuals on operational doctrine.!  After giving serious thought to Barker’s proposals and informally discussing them with members of the Air Force Council, General White replied on 22 April that there "can be no question about the compelling need within the Air Force for clear-cut and succinct statements of operational doctrine or the fact that the Air University is the best-qualified Air Force agency to prepare such manuals." White, nevertheless, insisted that Air Force headquarters was the only agency in the Air Force that was always conversant with Department of Defense policies and interservice negotiations. For this reason, headquarters would have to review all operational doctrine manuals. General White agreed that "far too much time was spent in seeking a document that would be palatable to all," and he promised that future Air Staff review of operational doctrine manuals would be limited to "substance only." Matters of arrangement, expression, and illustration would be left to the Air University.!°’ On 22 May, General Twining directed that the Air University be charged with receiving comments from the major air commanders regarding AFM 1-2 and with revising the manual in light of the