flying in defensive formations had been "proven wholly untenable." Arnold blamed the problem on the teachings of the Air Corps Tactical School and the fact that older and higher ranking Air Corps officers had sought to avoid strenuous service in pursuit units. He called on Maj Gen Delos C. Emmons, commander of the GHQ Air Force, to submit a study  96  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 118 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  looking toward the development of pursuit tactics, planes, and equipment. In the GHQ Air Force, Maj Harold L. George, commander of the 96th Bombardment Squadron, advised Emmons: "There is no question in my mind but that American bombardment units could not today defend themselves against American pursuit units." Pilots in the 8th Pursuit Group, as reported by Lt Col William E. Kepner, unanimously agreed that existing types of bombers would probably suffer a 50-percent loss from attacks by existing fighters unless the bombers operated at night. On the basis of these opinions, the GHO Air Force stated: "Aerial operations of the present European conflict confirm the results of the World War; that is that the present bombardment airplane cannot defend itself adequately against pursuit attack."  In the winter of 1939-40 the Air Corps considered the matter of pursuit and bombardment to be grave, but no one found any definite answers. Even though prevailing testimony indicated that existing pursuit aircraft were already superior to existing bombers, the GHO Air Force recommended improving both pursuit aircraft and the caliber of pursuit personnel. Antedating what would later be called the weapon system concept, the GHQ Air Force suggested that a pursuit plane should be built around a previously determined armament rather than being built as an airframe and fitted with whatever armament possible.!4 Working through the Christmas holidays, the Air Corps Board completed its report on 3 January 1940. This report, "Fire Power of Bombardment Formations," not