es, and a joint staff, all to be superimposed on coordinate army,  192  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 214 --- AF IN NATIONAL DEFENSE  navy, and air branches. It also proposed that the secretary of the armed forces was to serve as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and that both the Army and Navy would retain their special aviation components. Rather than merely oppose unification, Secretary of the Navy James V. Forrestal asked Ferdinand Eberstadt in June 1945 to head a study on national defense organization. When completed in September 1945, the Eberstadt report recommended that three coequal departments of war, navy, and air be recognized and that coordination between them would be achieved by the statutory establishment of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, a national security resources board, and a military munitions board. It recommended the establishment of a national security council, which would correlate the military and foreign policy of the United States.!°  First presented to the public in October by Lt Gen J. Lawton Collins, the War Department’s reorganization plan provided for a department of armed forces, a chief of staff of the armed forces (who would provide guidance to coequal army, navy, and air force chiefs), and a director of common supply and hospitalization. The chief of staff of the armed forces and a chief of staff to the president together with the chiefs of the three coequal branches would comprise the Joint Chiefs of Staff. On 19 December 1945 President Harry S Truman proposed to Congress a defense reorganization that made some concessions to the Eberstadt report but drew most heavily on the proposals made by Admiral Richardson’s special committee and the War Department’s plan. Under the president’s proposal, the Navy would retain its carrier- and water-based air and the Marine Corps. While Congress prepared for hearings, Truman established the National Intelligence Authority by executive order on 22 January 1946. In his judgment