entional means, we have ignored both the vital need for such a force and the possibility of achieving it through new and unconventional measures.  The Department of Defense and the Air Force already had implemented many of the concepts contained in the Vista report several months before it was completed, but the report did require action by the Defense Department. Many of the ideas presented in Vista continued to show up from time to time. The findings of the Summer Study Group, on the other hand, received immediate and intensive attention at the highest levels. On 24 September 1952 chairman Jack Gorrie of the National Security Resources Board recommended that the National Security Council accept the requirement for the DEW line. Rather than acting immediately as Gorrie desired, the National Security Council remanded the problem to the Department of Defense and the Air Force for study. Asked for its opinion on the DEW line, the Rand Corporation pointed out that the air defense system visualized by the Summer Study Group probably would cost far more than $20 billion and that the costs of air defense would have to come out of some other part of the Air Force. The Air Staff did not oppose establishing the DEW line but  331  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 353 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  questioned the cost estimates for it, and invited attention to the fact that the radar equipment which would be needed was not far enough developed to warrant a crash construction program. With the approval of the Department of Defense, the Air Force allocated $20 million to accelerate research and development of early warning radar equipment suited for employment in an arctic environment. Lovett and Finletter opposed Gorrie’s repeated demands for a policy statement authorizing the DEW line. In view of the continuing disagreement, Lovett appointed a Citizens Advisory Committee early in December. He asked the committee, which was headed by Dr Mervin J. Kelly, president of the Bel