ignated as Headquarters Strategic Air Command; on 21 October 1946 the new headquarters moved from Bolling Field to Andrews Field, Maryland. In its mission statement, the Strategic Air Command was charged to conduct long-range operations in any part of the world at any time; to perform maximum long-range reconnaissance over land or sea; and to provide combat operations in any part of the globe, employing the latest and most advanced weapons. The Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces were assigned to the Strategic Air Command.””  "We feel," stated Spaatz, "that the air defense of the United States cannot be left to chance. ... We must be properly organized so that there cannot possibly be an air surprise such as occurred at Pearl Harbor."”® AAF leaders continued to urge that the air defense of the United States should be a centralized system that would control fighter aircraft, radar, and antiaircraft artillery; and they believed that antiaircraft artillery should be integrated into the Army Air Forces. According to rumor, antiaircraft artillery officers in the Army Ground Forces did not want to integrate with the Army Air Forces. The Simpson board recommended that antiaircraft artillery should not be transferred to the Army Air Forces but that antiaircraft artillery units should be trained and attached to Army Air Forces units from time to time.’” The Air Defense Command was activated at Mitchel Field, New York, effective on 27 March 1946, and the First, Second, Fourth, Tenth, Eleventh, and Fourteenth Air Forces assigned to it. The Air Defense Command was charged to provide for the air defense of the United States, but it was obvious  * In March 1946 the Air Technical Service Command was redesignated as the Air Materiel Command,  207  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 229 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  very early that providing tactical units to it would be difficult. Despite statements to the contrary, the War Department and the Army Air Forces held a relaxed v