fense Advisory Commission), President Roosevelt requested the secretary of war and the secretary of the Navy on 9 July 1941 to explore "the over-all production requirements required to defeat our potential enemies."’® In the War Department, the War Plans Division broadened the scope of the problem by undertaking to base the production program ona prior determination of strategic concepts. After some delay the Army Air Forces Air War Plans Division, headed by Lt Col Harold L. George, was brought into the problem. At this time the only other officers assigned to the Air War Plans Division were Lt Cols Orvil Anderson and Kenneth Walker and Maj Haywood S. Hansell; but George secured the temporary services of several other officers including Lt Cols Max F. Schneider (A-4) and Arthur W. Vanaman (A-2) and Majs Hoyt S. Vandenberg (A-3), Laurence S. Kuter (G-3), and Samuel E. Anderson (Combat Command). The War Plans Division had only asked to know the maximum number of air squadrons that the Army Air Forces might ultimately require to garrison a great number of geographic sites and to hold as "reserves of opportunity." But George and his associates, most of whom had been faculty members at the Air Corps Tactical School, undertook to prepare a comprehensive air plan for the defeat of the Axis. Beginning on 4 August, teams of two or three officers worked up separate subjects and supporting documents, and Air War Plans Division-1 (AWPD-1), "Munitions Requirements of the Army Air Force," was completed on 12 August 1941.18? The completion of the first major strategic air war plan by the newly formed Army Air Forces staff in only nine days was a notable achievement, which marked both the apex of prewar air force doctrinal thought and a blueprint for the air war that would follow.  As conceived in AWPD-1 the military mission of the United States was the defeat of the nation’s potential enemies — Germany and her allies. The air mission outlined followed ABC-1 in that it required a s