ission of the Strategic Air Command. At a session of the USAF Board of Review for Tactical Operations in September 1949, Maj Gen David M. Schlatter had observed: "Our Strategic Air Command isn’t any more a strategic air command than my aunt’s foot. It is our striking force." He argued further that the Strategic Air Command would have "to help the soldier dig in in Europe and hold on to territory against the forward Russian divisions."> Speaking in June 1953, General Vandenberg told a Senate subcommittee: "The proper role of air forces is to destroy the enemy’s industrial potential." On further questioning, however, he stated that the Strategic Air Command would have to cover all the installations from which the Soviets could launch an atomic air attack against the United States. SAC would then have two priority missions: to destroy the enemy’s industrial potential and "to save the friendly ground forces that are already in contact with the enemy."”’ As outlined by General LeMay, the mission assigned by the Joint Chiefs of Staff required that the Strategic Air Command prevent an enemy nation from launching an atomic attack against the United States, retard the massing and launching of Soviet ground forces, and systematically destroy hostile war-sustaining resources.  At the time that the Joint Chiefs directed that the Strategic Air Command would assist theater forces by retarding Soviet advances, the Strategic Air Command found it difficult to target specific objectives. Some of the Soviet forces would be moving, and aircraft would have to search for them before making attacks. Planning for the retardation mission became even more complex early in 1952 when the Joint Chiefs of Staff began to allocate nuclear weapons to the unified theater commanders for employment by naval air forces and theater air forces. The Joint Chiefs recognized this problem and directed the Air Force to establish a jointly staffed war room in the Pentagon and joint coordination centers in appr