pton, president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, stated that the question of whether more powerful nuclear weapons could be developed was still in the realm of speculation. However, he felt that a surprise atomic attack against the United States even with current weapons would be a "very unpleasant . .. prospect." He recommended that for a mobile striking air force to be employed "as a strategic weapon against the most important of the enemy’s sources of industrial and military warfare." "I believe," he concluded, "that the existence of a striking Air Force of that type, always ready as a threat of retaliation, would be the strongest single thing that we could do in this country, to act as a deterrent against aggression by any other nation."!”?  Appearing in behalf of the Air Force, Secretary Symington offered the view that the United States had been "forced into a position of world leadership and of responsibilities of a global extent" at the.same time that it had "lost the cushion of time and distance." Spaatz described the major segments of the Air Force plan for national security as being the 70 combat groups, adequately manned and equipped civilian components, plans and installations for aerial defense of the United States, a research and development program second to none, vigorous and alert aircraft manufacturing and air transport industries, and an industrial mobilization plan. Both Spaatz and Vandenberg devoted most of their testimony to explaining the aircraft requirements of the 70-group program. a Maj Alexander P. de Seversky, however, discussed broader aspects of air warfare. "As long as we use piloted  227  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 249 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  aircraft," he argued, "the destruction of the enemy cannot be accomplished without first assuming control of the air above his territory. . . . Penetration by piloted airplanes, even with jet and rocket propulsion, will be unthinkable without all-out air com