ent to the Far East if needed. At 1400 hours on 29 August the Tactical Air Command was directed to deploy the force, and under the leadership of Brig Gen Avelin P. Tacon the first planes carrying the task force departed their home stations at 1630 hours on the same day. Had the CASF made nonstop flights its planes could have arrived in the Far East within 48 hours flying time, but deliberate rest stops were scheduled for the crews in Hawaii, at either Midway or Wake Islands, and in Guam. With a strength of two F-100 squadrons, one B-57 squadron, two RF-101 squadrons, and two C-130 squadrons, CASF Xray Tango was completely in place on Taiwan by 12 September. Mainly as a psychological gesture, a squadron of 12 F-104 Starfighter interceptors was transported aboard C-124 transports, and these planes were put into action on 12 September after they had been reassembled. In these movements a total of 137 four-engine aircraft of the Military Air Transport Service and the Tactical Air Command airlifted 1,718 personnel and 1,088 tons of cargo. As this strength was building up, Chinese Nationalist Air Force pilots proved able to handle the Red Chinese MiG-17 aircraft in a series of engagements over the Formosa Straits. In 25 separate air encounters, the Nationalists lost four aircraft and destroyed 33 of the Red planes—four of the victories being scored with Sidewinder air-to-air missiles. After firing more than a half million rounds of artillery at Quemoy, the Reds announced a week’s suspension of the shelling on 6 October. From this time onward the crisis abated, and the United States forces that were deployed to Taiwan returned to their permanent stations within the following two months.  While there was no doubt that American policy had been accomplished in the Lebanon and Taiwan operations, evaluations made by high-level officials revealed a difference of opinion as to lessons to be drawn from these operations and about the nature of limited war as well. To Secretary McEl