1921, Menoher had asked that Mitchell be transferred away from Washington; and following the illicit publication of the bombing report, Menoher told Secretary of War John W. Weeks that either he or Mitchell had to go.  Allegedly because he had failed "to handle and discipline" Mitchell, Menoher was relieved as chief of the Air Service. Selected by Secretary Weeks because of his reputation for having straightened out "a tangled mess" in the Air Service, AEF, General Patrick was appointed chief of the Air Service and undertook the duty on 5 October 1921.8 As a nonflyer, Patrick told Mitchell that he would consult him on major decisions including general Air Service doctrine and policies, but that he would be the chief in fact as well as in name and would make all final decisions. Patrick said that Mitchell talked of resignation from the Army, but that on a little reflection he saw fit to continue as assistant chief of the Air Service.  In the winter of 1921-22, allegedly to get him off the scene while the delicate negotiations attending the Washington conference of the limitation of naval armaments were in progress, Patrick sent Mitchell, accompanied by Lt Clayton Bissell and aeronautical engineer Alfred Verville, on an inspection trip to France, Italy, Germany, Holland, and England. In each of these countries, Mitchell attempted to determine "the national policy of the country and the way in which it was applied from an aeronautical standpoint." Mitchell professed to have found a great emphasis upon aviation: "It is well known by all European nations," he reported, "that an air force can be ready to strike at least two weeks before any armies join battle. . . . If an air force is sufficiently well organized, equipped, and  37  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 59 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  instructed, these armies probably never will come into contact as the air force will settle the matter itself." Applying what he had observed in Europe to the strate