actical Air Command’s responsibilities.1 Moreover, the Air Force’s failure to fill some vacancies in the boards or to appoint one individual to serve on more than one board revealed a flagging interest in them. General Wolfinbarger served as director of the Joint Tactical Air Support Board. When General Hoag retired in February 1953, Wolfinbarger was appointed to serve additionally as director of the Joint Air Transportation Board. After Wolfinbarger retired in July 1953, Maj Gen Robert L. Copsey was named director of the Joint Air Transportation Board; but the other position remained vacant for several months before Maj Gen Edward H. Underhill was named director of the Joint Tactical Air Support Board. Although Copsey continued to direct the Joint Air Transportation Board, Underhill was transferred to other duties in August 1954. At that time the Tactical Air Command strongly objected to assigning another general officer to the Joint Tactical Air Support Board and the director’s position remained vacant. In May and June 1953 both the Army and the Air Force reduced their personnel authorizations for these three joint boards, stating that they would thereafter collectively employ the retained officers to accomplish their most urgent projects.  When its charter was approved in May 1952, the Joint Air Transportation Board was made as the principal agent of the armed forces responsible for developing doctrine and procedures and for evaluating tactics, techniques, equipment, and training for all air transportation matters. Almost immediately Generals Collins and Twining had agreed that the board would not consider any matters concerning the Military Air Transport Service. The Air Force had ruled that responsibilities for aeromedical transport, war plans, and mobilization matters were outside the purview of the board. Other attempts of the board to pursue projects were stymied by competition from other commands and by conflicting service positions.  The Tactical Air Comma