d air power to the American people, Senator Lodge published an article entitled "Let’s Face It—We’re in a Jam" in the Saturday Evening Post on 28 July 1951.18!  The "great debate" over the dispatch of American ground divisions to Europe produced many reasons for the expansion of American air power, but both the Truman administration and Congress remained committed to the balanced forces included in the original fiscal year 1952 budget. When the appropriations for fiscal year were totaled, Congress appropriated $59.4 billion of the $60.7 billion requested and subsequently provided another $1 billion to meet additional costs arising from combat operations in Korea.“ Granted a total obligational authority of $21.6 billion, the Army increased its force level from 18 to 20 combat divisions.  322  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 344 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  With $15.6 billion in new obligational authority, the Navy continued the construction of its large aircraft carrier, which was now named the USS Forrestal, and began its sister ship, which Secretary of the Navy Dan A. Kimball indicated would be the second of the fleet of 12 modern carriers that the Navy would require. In August 1951 the Navy awarded a contract for the construction of a prototype nuclear submarine to be named the Nautilus. The Marine Corps organized and started training the Third Marine Division and the Third Marine Aircraft Wing.’ With $22.2 billion in new obligational authority for fiscal year 1952, the Air Force completed the activation of its 95 wings in June 1952 and placed orders for 6,944 aircraft during the year. Most of these planes were already familiar types. But for the first time in several years the Air Force instituted procurement of new types of improved aircraft, including three B-52As and 17 RB-52Bs; the latter could serve as intercontinental jet bombers when their reconnaissance pods were replaced with bomb racks. In response to the Tactical Air Command’s requirements for a ni