herent flexibility of air power," stated the manual,  is its greatest asset. This flexibility makes it possible to employ the whole weight of the available air power against selected areas in turn; such concentrated use of the air striking force is a battle-winning factor of the first importance. Control of available air power must be centralized and command must be exercised through the Air Force commander if this inherent flexibility and ability to deliver a decisive blow are to be fully exploited. Therefore, the command of air and ground forces in a theater of operations will be vested in the superior commander charged with the actual conduct of operations in the theater, whowill exercise command of air forces through the air force commander and command of ground forces through the ground force commander.  The manual also stated that land power and air power were coequal and that the gaining of air superiority was the first requirement for the success of any major land operation. It described the mission and composition of a strategic air force, a tactical air force, an air defense command, and an air service command.”  As soon as FM 100-20 was published, General Arnold directed that a copy of it should be distributed to every Air Corps officer. In a letter to each AAF commander, he emphasized that "the interrelated role of air power must be constantly impressed upon all airmen through the medium of command." But the Army Ground Forces viewed the manual with dismay and described it as the"Army Air Forces’ ‘Declaration of Independence.» Within the Air Force, moreover, Gen Orvil Anderson continued to deplore the division of air power represented by the tactical air force. At least one other old-line Air Corps officer, Brig Gen Robert C. Candee, suggested that the Air Force had "swallowed the RAF solution of a local situation in Africa hook, line and sinker, without stopping to analyze it or report it in ‘Americanese’ instead of British speech." Candee agreed that a