conceived in AWPD-1 the military mission of the United States was the defeat of the nation’s potential enemies — Germany and her allies. The air mission outlined followed ABC-1 in that it required a sustained air offensive against German military power, supplemented by air offensives against other regions under enemy control which contributed to that power. The air mission also required the air force "to support a final offensive, if it becomes necessary to invade the continent" and "to conduct effective air operations in connection with Hemisphere Defense and a strategic defensive in the Far East." The air planners thought it improbable that a land invasion could be mounted against Germany for at least three years. Moreover, they posited, if the air offensive were successful, a land offensive might not be necessary. Three lines of US air action were possible against a German economy and society that was already strained by the military campaign in Russia. The first line of air action— which would accomplish the air mission in Europe — required disruption of Germany’s electric power system and transportation system, destruction of Germany’s oil and petroleum resources, and undermining of Germany’s morale by air attack against civilian concentrations. The second line of air action—representing intermediate objectives that might be  109  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 131 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  essential to the principal effort — required neutralization of German air forces by attacks against their bases, aircraft factories, and aluminum and magnesium factories. A third line of action—to safeguard operating air bases—included attacks against submarine bases, surface seacraft, and invasion ports. The planners advocated a concentration of daylight, precision bombing attacks against the principal objectives. They did not favor attacks against cities unless the enemy people were known to be low in morale either because of sustained suffering and depr