sident Truman approved these force goals in December 1951, but his instruction that military budgets should be held below $60 billion a year stretched the earliest date of readiness for the 143-wing Air Force out to 30 June 1955. At a conference in Lisbon in February 1952, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization nations established a goal of 96 divisions by 1954, 40 of these divisions to be in a permanent state of readiness and 56 to be capable of becoming operational within 30 days.  The American strategy was not completely agreeable to Great Britain. Prime Minister Winston Churchill had returned to power in 1951 at a time of national economic crisis. To ease the financial strain on his government he had instructed his chiefs of staff to reappraise Britain’s defense policy. After intense study, the British chiefs of staff prepared a paper demonstrating that the advent of nuclear weapons justified a primary reliance on atomic air power and substantial reductions in surface forces. During a visit to Washington in July 1952, Air Chief Marshal Sir John Slessor argued for the adoption of the British strategy. He urged that the Lisbon force goals placed too great a strain on fragile European economies and recommended a strategy of nuclear deterrence that would be based upon American and British nuclear air capabilities.>  During his successful 1952 campaign for the American presidency, Gen Dwight D. Eisenhower promised economy in government, an honorable end to the Korean war, and, if necessary, a personal trip to the war zone in order to learn how best to serve the interests of the American people. When he visited Korea early in December 1952 in the company of Adm Arthur W. Radford, then commander in chief, Pacific, Eisenhower was said to have been dissatisfied with "the dissipation of American resources in a remote, indecisive struggle." While returning homeward aboard the cruiser Helena, Eisenhower held talks with several of the men who would serve in his cabinet, incl