units and the remaining 80 percent in air force or combat aviation. Because of reductions in Air Service strength and the requirement to keep enough observation units to conduct training with ground forces, 38 percent of the Air Service strength was in air service units. Patrick called for a restoration of a proper balance by the organization of additional air force combat units.102  Attentive to General Patrick’s criticisms, the secretary of war on 18 December 1922 directed the Air Service to present a study on necessary remedial actions. Patrick accepted the project but he maintained that the study could not be made until the War Department had accepted the concept that Army aviation should be divided into air service and air force units. In addition, he argued that all air service observation units should be withdrawn from divisions and consolidated under the command of corps and armies, and that an "adequate well-balanced Air Force" ought to be built to serve as the GHO Reserve. "Very often," Patrick wrote, "there is as distinct and definite a mission for the Air Force independent of the ground troops as there is for the Army and Navy independent of each other." For this reason he opposed the assignment of air force units to field armies, and he urged that the Air Service should be authorized to maintain a minimum of six  41  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 63 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  bombardment groups instead of the existing authorization for only one bombardment group. 8 Possibly to emphasize Patrick’s point, General Mitchell wrote a long pamphlet in the winter of 1922-23 entitled "Notes on the Multi- Motored Bombardment Group, Day and Night." This elaborate treatise on the tactical employment of bombardment aviation was prefaced by the observation: "Offensive aviation is employed most effectively at the beginning of hostilities during the period of ground and water mobilization and concentration. ... Against an enemy not in possession of a