ses in Europe would require an excessive expansion of Air Force infrastructure. °” Appearing before the Senate Subcommittee on Military Appropriations on 13 July, Senator Lodge made an extensive statement favoring an Air Force of 150 combat wings. At this time Finletter agreed that the proper way to allocate defense funds was to identify the tasks to be performed and make recommendations to carry them out. Both Finletter and Vandenberg pointed out the limited capabilities of a 95-wing Air Force, but Finletter proposed that any action to expand further than this ought to await a Department of Defense review, which would take place in the autumn. Other than for answering specific questions, neither Air Force official committed himself to Lodge’s proposals. However, Finletter remarked: "The existing power of the Russians is such that it would probably be impossible to hold them if it were not for one factor, and that is at the moment the United States has a great superiority in atomic weapons and in the ability to deliver them." And Vandenberg noted that "within the limits of the money given to us we should endeavor to free the Air Force as much as possible from the requirement for overseas bases in the hands of other powers." Vandenberg also explained his rule for measuring the proper size of the Air Force:  There is only one valid measure of the adequacy of our own strength in the air, and that is the air strength of a potential enemy. If he decreases his air strength-in-readiness, our requirements may be reduced. But as he increases his ready air forces ours must be correspondingly increased if we are to guard against the swiftest kind of military disaster. Whatever our plan or policy we have no choice but to maintain superiority in the air.  Taking his case for expanded air power to the American people, Senator Lodge published an article entitled "Let’s Face It—We’re in a Jam" in the Saturday Evening Post on 28 July 1951.18!  The "great debate" over the dispatch of