, Gen Hoyt S. Vandenberg formally protested Air Force reductions to the new Secretary of the Air Force Harold E. Talbott. On 7 and 8 May the Joint Chiefs warned Wilson that "any government decision to reduce force goals below those in approved programs . . . would increase the calculated risk, and that the years 1954-55 represented the beginning of a potentially dangerous period during which the USSR would have a substantial stockpile of atomic weapons, and the improved ability to deliver such weapons."!! Despite this admonition, the Department of Defense submitted a revised budget for fiscal year 1954 that was reduced by about $7.5 billion, of which $5.3 billion represented a cut in Air Force funds. Pending a new look at the entire defense picture, which Wilson promised would be made in the autumn of 1953, the goal of an interim force level for the Air Force was set at 120 wings, with 110 to 114 of these wings to be activated and substantially well equipped by 30 June 1954. Most of the units to be deferred were day-fighter and fighter-bomber wings; the new aircraft on order for them would be used to modernize Air Reserve and Air National Guard forces.“ In spirited hearings before House and Senate appropriations subcommittees, Generals Bradley and Vandenberg strongly defended the programmed requirement for 143 wings, to be achieved as soon as possible, desirably by 1954. "No sound military reason," Vandenberg stated, "has been advanced to explain why the Air Force build-up to the agreed force level is again to be delayed. Once again the growth of American air power is threatened with start-and-stop planning, and at a time when we face an enemy who has more modern jet fighters than we have and enough long-range bombers to attack this country in a sudden all-out atomic effort. Rather than reduce our efforts to attain air superiority over the Communists, we should now increase those efforts."  The Wilson budget prevailed in Congress in spite of the eloquent pleas of Ge