affe launched the Battle of Britain and began a phase of air combat that fostered still  98  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 120 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  more thinking. As a special observer in London from May to September 1940, Colonel Spaatz had a firsthand view of some of the heaviest fighting of the Luftwaffe blitz. As shown by his diary and his reports, Spaatz quickly reached a conclusion that the Germans had developed "a mass of air geared to the Army" which was not going to be able to prevail against the "real air power" developed by the British. German bombers were inadequately armed and lacked capabilities for heavy bombing attacks. Held to close support of bombers, German pursuit forces were unable to gain a general control of the air. Spaatz noted that British airmen discredited the American concept that a hostile air force was easiest destroyed on the ground. They found a well-dispersed air force to be an exceptionally difficult bombing target, and they believed that it was more efficient to destroy hostile aircraft in the air by fighter attack. When enemy planes were shot down, both planes and crews were destroyed. "General opinion," Spaatz noted in his diary, "is that German fighters will not attack a well-closed-in day-bombing formation." Visiting Great Britain in August and September 1940, Emmons reached much the same conclusion. He attributed the severe losses taken by the Luftwaffe to the large volume of fire that could be delivered by British fighters, the poor rear-hemisphere gun defenses of German bombers, the Germans’ use of vulnerable dive-bombing tactics and large inflexible formations, and the Germans’ poor air discipline. Emmons also reported that the British believed that six-plane formations of bombers with sufficient guns and armor could conduct daylight attacks without sustaining serious losses. *” Early in 1941 Spaatz urged that every effort be made to expand American production of four-engine bombers. The British, he sa