ing delays caused by weather, the XXI Bomber Command sent its first bombing mission on a high-level attack against Tokyo’s Nakajima aircraft plant on 24 November 1944. Against the high-flying B-29s, Japanese fighter interceptors had little real effect. But, in the months that followed, the precision bombing effort appeared rather unsuccessful. Adverse winter weather scattered bomber formations, obscured targets, and reduced bombing accuracy. The long flights to Japan and the need to lift heavy bomb loads to more than 25,000-foot bombing altitudes strained engines and brought about substantial losses of aircraft at sea. Impatient with the performance of the XXI Bomber Command, General Arnold moved General LeMay to its command on 20 January 1945, but neither the new commander nor the commitment of another bomb wing to combat from North Field on Tinian on 4 February appeared to give better results.  Actually the B-29 attacks against the Japanese aircraft factories proved more effective than was realized. The United States Strategic Bombing Survey discovered that the damages caused by the B-29s were enough to convince the Japanese of a need to disperse their aircraft plants. The destruction inflicted, plus the confusion resulting from frantic dispersal efforts, reduced the preattack capacity of aircraft engine plants by 75 percent, of airframe plants by 60 percent, and of electronics and communications equipment plants by 70 percent.) i  General Arnold, apprehensive about reports that the Japanese were building a new and heavily armed fighter interceptor that might inflict heavy losses upon the B-29s and mindful of the need for fighter escort in the European theater, had sent a memorandum to the Joint Plans Section in July 1944 recommending the seizure of the island of Iwo Jima midway between the Marianas and Japan to serve as a base for long-range escort fighters. The same month Arnold committed five long-range P-47N and P-51 fighter groups to the XXI Bomber Command. A