same principle "by tying up, within the Air Force, pieces of aviation, each designed for a particular job." In the autumn of 1950 Barker collaborated with Col Dale O. Smith in the publication of an article entitled "Air Power Indivisible." On 21 December, Barker asked General Edwards, Air Force deputy chief of staff for operations, to approve a memorandum on Air Force doctrine that emphasized the fact that all elements of the Air Force had to be prepared to perform any operational function of the Air Force. The paper asserted: "A clear-cut differentiation between strategic missions and tactical missions is neither desirable nor possible." By demonstrating that air power was indivisible, Barker hoped to "break down the feeling on the part of the Army that unless we have huge forces set up under the label ‘Tactical Air Force’ they are not getting tactical support."  Much to the surprise of Barker and Gen George C. Kenney, the Air University commander, General Edwards was unwilling to approve the proposed Air University statement of air doctrine. Edwards concurred "wholeheartedly" with the principle of the flexibility of air power and with the conclusion that there was a lack of clear differentiation between strategic and tactical air missions, but he insisted that the Strategic Air Command ought not to be diverted from its primary missions to perform tasks of lesser importance. "In view of the capability of the long-range bomber," Edwards wrote, "I feel that from an organizational point of view the authority for the higher direction of the war should retain direct control over some units which they can employ in a sustained drive against the war-making capacity of an enemy nation or which they can divert, ifnecessary, to the more direct support of any theater in overwhelming need." To safeguard the integrity of the Strategic Air Command, the Air Staff drafted an insertion to be placed in the Air University statement of air doctrine, the key portion reading:  381  Goog