hat would be called the Polaris. Wilson gave his approval in November 1956 and the Navy completely withdrew from the Jupiter program on 10 December 1956.” In keeping with the Army’s arsenal concept, the Army Ballistic Missile Agency served as designer and prime contractor for the Jupiter missile and contracted with the Chrysler Corporation for hand-tooled test quantities of the airframes required for assembly of the completed missile.”  Presenting an admittedly Air Force view on the subject, Gen Charles S. Irvine described both the Army Jupiter and the Air Force Thor as fallouts from the Atlas program. The Army disputed this claim in the case of the J upiter.’”” The Air Force’s Thor project, however, was clearly derived from ongoing missile programs and followed a plan that had been developed by the Western Development Division and Ramo-Wooldridge team even before the Air Force assigned the intermediate range ballistic missile project to the Air Research and Development Command on 18 November 1955. The Thor (SM-75) would utilize already developed engines, nose cones, and guidance systems, and the only new contractor required for it was for the construction of the airframe. A letter contract was issued on 27 December 1955 to the Douglas Aircraft Corporation for the development of the SM-75 airframe and for assembly and testing of the missile. The first Thor arrived at the Air Force Missile Test Center, Patrick AFB, Florida, on 18 October 1956, less than ayear after the Air Force ordered the development of the missile. The first Thors were handmade articles, but the Douglas Company had prepared to begin production in quantity from the project’s beginning.’  When he directed, in November 1955, that both the Army and the Air Force develop intermediate range ballistic missiles, Secretary Wilson had announced that development of the missiles would not prejudice the roles and missions of the services. "I am going," he said, "to let Admiral Radford and the chiefs take enoug