e Air Defense Command, General Partridge returned to a more limited concept of air defense. "As a matter of doctrine," he stated in April 1956,  we believe that the best defense is a good offense, and we believe that our primary mission in the Air Defense Command is to defend the bases from which the Strategic Air Command is going to operate. ... We believe also that we have to provide a reasonable, an equitable protection for the key facilities, the population centers and our industry. ... We believe, however, that our primary objective is to convince the enemy that he should not attack, and if we can deter the enemy from attacking, we have achieved a 100-percent air defense.  Partridge continued to emphasize the deterrent aspects of air defense. "First of all," he said in 1957, "we want to be so strong, from an air defense point of view, that the enemy will be deterred from the decision, that fateful decision, to attack. ... The second thing we’re trying to do is to insure our survival in the event we are attacked."  The decision of the Department of Defense to meet the challenge of Soviet Bison and Bear aircraft by increasing procurement of B-52s and permitting some dispersal of the Strategic Air Command, increased the importance of the warning function provided by the Continental Air Defense Command. While Partridge was willing to provide the Strategic Air Command with as much warning as was possible, he believed that the Air Defense Command should be provided with a remote air defense weapon system that would permit it to intercept and destroy approaching Soviet bombers before they could launch standoff missiles. In asearch for means to provide air cover over naval forces at sea and for beachhead assaults, the Navy commenced studies in 1955 of a system composed of a subsonic long-endurance control and warning Missileer aircraft that were to be equipped to launch high-performance, long-range air-to-air Eagle missiles.” The Air Force had this same option to devel