tons in one month over the hump from India into China at very high altitudes."2°  235  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 257 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  In Germany, where he had been assigned as commander of the United States Air Force in Europe, General LeMay started the Berlin Airlift with locally available planes on 26 June 1948. Back in Washington, Secretary of State George C. Marshall and Lovett emphasized that the United States could not afford to bluff. "We had to have something to back us up," Lovett maintained, "in case the Russians wanted to use this as an excuse for a war." At a meeting on 27 June, Forrestal, Lovett, and high-ranking officers discussed the advisability of deploying two additional B-29 squadrons to join the squadron of the 301st Bombardment Group, which was on a rotational tour of duty at Fiirstenfeldbruck Air Base in Germany and of securing approval from Great Britain for the movement of two other B-29 groups to British bases. With Truman’s approval, the State Department queried Britain on her willingness to accommodate the groups and received an affirmative reply.21 On 27 June, Air Staff officers went to Andrews Field and verbally briefed the Strategic Air Command as to what was expected of it. Without delay, the Strategic Air Command ordered the two remaining squadrons of the 301st Group to move to Goose Bay, Labrador, the normal summer staging point for Europe. The 28th and 307th Groups were put on short alerts at their home airfields. Given orders to continue the deployment, the 301st Group was in place in Germany on 2 July. Some additional time was required to prepare bases in Great Britain, but the 307th arrived there on 17 July and the 28th had its planes in England on 18 July.”!? As soonas the B-29 deployment was completed, the Military Air Transport Service was able to put most of its capabilities into the Berlin Airlift. Maj Gen William H. Tunner took command of the augmented Airlift Task Force (Provisional) in Eur