valuation board threatened some duplication of effort, but Fickel agreed to confine his studies to the tactical air warfare effort.-  When the necessary groundwork had been laid, President Roosevelt directed Secretary Stimson on 9 September 1944 to form a qualified and impartial group to  144  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 166 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  study the effect of strategic aerial attacks against Germany. On 3 November, Stimson asked Franklin D’Olier, president of the Prudential Insurance Company, to serve as chairman of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey. Various civilian experts were selected as directors of proposed divisions. The research activities of the survey were divided into three large units: military, economic, and civilian studies—each broken down into divisions. At the end of hostilities in Europe, Maj Gen Orvil Anderson came to the survey as chief of the Military Analysis Division and chairman of a panel of military advisers that included Gen Omar N. Bradley and Vice Adm Robert L. Ghormley. As finally constituted, the United States Strategic Bombing Survey in Europe consisted of some 300 civilian experts, analysts, technicians, and production men assisted by 350 officers and 574 enlisted men. Beginning in November 1944, teams of investigators followed Allied military forces into Germany and compiled enough basic information to fill up 208 published reports. The investigators gathered their data from inspections and examinations of target areas, captured records of the German government and industrial corporations, and interviews and interrogations of thousands of Germans, including practically all of the surviving German political and military leaders.  As the United States Strategic Bombing Survey was completing its field work in the European theater, President Harry S Truman asked D’Olier to head a group that would conduct a joint Army-Navy analysis of the air war against Japan. Truman directed that the Japanese survey