ght that air power had limited value when employed independently and was chiefly useful as a support for surface operations. The course text Air Forces and War cited military attaché reports received from Spain, which said that high-altitude bombing was ineffectual, that the Flying Fortress concept had "died in Spain," and that small bombers and fighters, which could operate from cow-pasture facilities, were of the utmost utility.” What made the text seem more authoritative was the fact that Col B. Q. Jones, a long-time Air Corps officer who had served as a sector commander in the airmail episode and was now an instructor at the Army War College, completely endorsed it in a summary lecture. Colonel Jones, who would transfer  85  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 107 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  to the cavalry in 1939, stated that the Spanish Civil War had demonstrated that the capabilities of air power had not progressed markedly from those displayed in World War I. He advocated using bombardment aviation as long-range artillery, attaching attack and bombardment aircraft to lower echelons of the Army for use in the same manner as artillery, and employing GHQ aviation in close support of ground forces. Seeking to counteract the influence of the Jones lecture in War Department General Staff, Lt Cols Ralph H. Wooten and Walter F. Kraus, the Air Corps officers assigned to the G-3 division, drew up a paper which pointed out that Jones was inconsistent with approved Army doctrine incorporated in Training Regulation 440-15. General Embick, however, refused to accept this finding. "Aviation," he wrote on 23 October 1937, "is a new arm. Our present War Department doctrine has had to be based necessarily on theory and assumption rather than on factual evidence. Now we are getting evidence of that character. No doctrine is sacro-sanct, and of all military doctrines that of our Air Corps should be the last to be so regarded."  Even though the Woodring program autho