S, DOCTRINE  building up in Europe could well threaten the Western Hemisphere. He, therefore, saw the need to study the employment of the Air Corps in support of national policy as represented by the Monroe Doctrine. He thought it best that the study remain unknown to the War Department until the Air Corps had "crystallized its own thought." Among its other undertakings, the Air Corps Board was already working on a study to determine the most effective methods of using aircraft in defense of the continental United States. Arnold accordingly assigned the secret Monroe Doctrine project to the Air Corps Board on 6 June. When General Pratt protested that neither the Tactical School nor the Air Corps Board was equipped for making war plans, General Westover told him that the board would undertake the study with such assistance as it could get from the Tactical School faculty.!¥4  But because of a shortage of personnel during the summer vacation season at Maxwell Field, the Air Corps Board made little progress on the Monroe Doctrine until August 1938, when Col J. H. Pirie and Maj Orvil A. Anderson reported as the board’s director and recorder. As Anderson later recalled, the Air Corps Board had never before addressed a specific situation that so clearly demanded long-range bombers and quasi-independent air actions as did the requirement for air defense of the hemisphere under the Monroe Doctrine. After an analysis of the potential military requirements for support of the Monroe Doctrine, Anderson, who drew up the logistical requirements for the study, was able to demonstrate the inherent efficiency of long-range aircraft in terms of planes, personnel, and bases required to defend the North American continent and the South American continent down to the 36th parallel against seaborne threat or invasion. The study was not developed in full detail because Arnold, who became chief of the Air Corps on 22 September 1938 following Westover’s death in an air accident, demanded th