! Other authorities regarded the AAF Board as being only one of several important research and analysis agencies. Col Barton W. Leach, chief of the Operations Analysis Division, for example, suggested that the AAF Board, the Operations Analysis Division, the AAF evaluation boards, and the Scientific Advisory Group were so closely related in function that they ought to be placed under the unified direction of an Air Staff officer in charge of analysis, evaluation, and research.’~ Apparently without recognizing that he was circumscribing the province of the AAF Board, General Arnold established an All-Weather Air Forces Board at Lockbourne AFB, Ohio, on 16 June 1945 and charged it to evolve and implement a long-range research and development program for all-weather air operations. Without guidance from above, the Lockbourne center was soon reported to be more concerned with "gadgeteering" than with orderly investigation.” At Orlando, Florida, the AAF Board had enjoyed a close relationship with the educational facilities of the AAF School, but on 29 November 1945 the school was physically transferred to Maxwell Field, Alabama, where the Air University was being established.”  General Spaatz’s Air Force Reorganization  In the period prior to November 1945, the Army Air Forces laboriously planned a postwar organization, but the final approval of all planning would be dependent on the wishes of Gen Dwight D. Eisenhower, who became Army chief of staff on 19 November 1945, and General Spaatz, who began to assume the duties of commanding general, Army Air Forces, when General Arnold requested retirement on 8 November. Although Arnold would not begin his terminal leave until 1 March 1946, he thought that his successor should have the responsibility for forming the policies that he would have to carry out. On 29 November, Eisenhower appointed a board of officers under Lt Gen William H. Simpson and charged it to prepare a definitive plan for the reorganization of the Army and t