are going to have to build for the worst cases, and then use them for all others. ... We have been into some minor skirmishes because we did not make it clear that we would use our full power as necessary."”!4 Even more of the meaning of the Air Force position on nuclear weapons and limited wars was revealed by Maj Gen James H. Walsh, director of Air Force intelligence. "The military objectives in a limited action," Walsh said,  would be, first, to gain air control and then to cripple the enemy military force. This objective really does not depend on nuclear weapons for its basic validity, but we have come to respect the decisiveness and effectiveness inherent in nuclear firepower, principally because of its great economy in sorties. .. . In this fast-moving age we no longer can build non-nuclear forces at the expense of our atomic strike and defense units, and at the same time move boldly into the parameters of space at the tempo required for survival... . It is time that we recognize that we have crossed the nuclear Rubicon, and to consider the political and military advantages accruing therefrom. We cannot allow our national courage to collapse by resorting to very cautious and reticent objectives, which would penalize our ability to use nuclear weapons intelligently to deter and, if hostilities occur, to bring limited wars to a quick eng,’ The agonizing memory of the drawn-out Korean conflict is too fresh to be forgotten.  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 486 --- STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS  Increased Acceptance of Flexible Response  Although the United States remained committed to a policy of maximum reliance upon air power and nuclear weapons for both general and limited war contingencies, the Army’s concept of flexible military response gained acceptance in influential circles. Writing on 23 September 1956, Prof Walt Whitman Rostow desired the United States to outstrip the Soviet Union in the nuclear arms race, but he also urged: "We must develop Ameri