2As and 17 RB-52Bs; the latter could serve as intercontinental jet bombers when their reconnaissance pods were replaced with bomb racks. In response to the Tactical Air Command’s requirements for a night intruder and night tactical reconnaissance aircraft to replace obsolete B-26  types, the Air Force issued purchase orders for 110 B-57s and 67 RB-57s, these planes to be an American version of the British Canberra jet. Designed to replace RB-45 aircraft, the Air Force ordered a test quantity of five RB-66A jet aircraft from Douglas. The principal jet fighters on order were F-84s, F-86s, F-89s, and F-94s, but the Air Force issued an order for two YF-100As and a production quantity of 23 F-100s — these aircraft being improved F-86s, which would be known as the Super Sabre. Marking realization of the decision made in 1950 to abandon the use of powerless gliders in future airborne operations, the Air Force ordered 244 C-123s, which would be used as assault transports and would be capable of landings and takeoffs from short and rough strips. 4  Air Objectives Expand to 143 Wings  During his tenure of office, Secretary Marshall had sought to meet immediate military requirements and to broaden the nation’s mobilization base. When Robert A. Lovett became secretary of defense, he called upon the Joint Chiefs of Staff to make decisions as to the force levels beginning in fiscal year 1953 that the United States would require for the next several years. "We must try to do first things first," stated Lovett, "and not everything at once."!® When they surveyed national requirements and capabilities during October 1951, the Joint Chiefs of Staff evidently were impressed by the growth of Soviet air capabilities as compared with those of the United States. The notion that the United States could easily and cheaply achieve qualitative superiority over a technically inept enemy was dispelled by the appearance and performance of MiG-15 aircraft in the air over Korea. 6 Vandenberg pointe