, Dulles expressed a belief that the development of small and clean nuclear weapons would benefit free world defenses. "In the future," he wrote,  it may thus be feasible to place less reliance upon deterrence of vast retaliatory power. It may be possible to defend countries by nuclear weapons so mobile, or so placed, as to make military invasion with conventional forces a hazardous attempt. .. . Thus, in contrast to the 1950 decade, it may be that by the 1960 decade the nations which are around the Sino-Soviet perimeter can possess an effective defense against full-scale conventional attack and thus confront any aggressor with the choice between failing or himself initiating nuclear war against the defending country. Thus the tables may be turned, in the sense that, instead of those who are nonaggressive having to rely upon all-out nuclear retaliatory power for their protection, would-be aggressors will be unable to count on a successful conventional aggression but must themselves weigh the consequences of invoking nuclear war.  In Europe where he had become supreme allied commander in November 1956, Gen Lauris Norstad wished to increase the effectiveness of the NATO shield forces by increasing their tactical nuclear capabilities, but he thought it very unlikely that any serious incident along the sensitive frontiers of NATO could remain limited.  As far as General White was concerned, local conflict in the NATO area would be "tantamount to general war. "222 at the NATO Heads of Government Conference on 16 December 1957, Secretary Dulles stated that the "major deterrent to Soviet aggression against NATO is the maintenance of a retaliatory power of such capacity as to convince the Soviets that such aggression would result in their own destruction." The United States, nevertheless, desired that the strength of the NATO ground, sea, and air shield forces should be increased. To this end the United States was prepared to make available intermediate range ballistic miss