oard was working on the tactical air force study, Colonel Stearley had been assigned to the Office of the Assistant Chief of Air Staff for Training in Washington. In March 1944 he had assembled a committee that prepared a draft paper on air-ground cooperation. The Army Air Forces submitted this paper and the study on the tactical air force to the War Department G-3 for approval and publication as War Department training circulars. But G-3 refused to approve the tactical air force study until the air-ground cooperation paper was coordinated with the Army Ground Forces. Moreover, on 22 June Brig Gen Mervin E. Gross, chief of the requirements division of OC&R, called attention to the fact that "all field service regulations and field manuals dealing with air force subjects, with the exception of FM 100-20, are abominably obsolete and confusing." Gross proposed to make the AAF Board responsible for preparing all AAF publications on  140  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 162 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  doctrine. He also proposed to augment its strength to permit it to handle the complete task of reviewing, writing, and compiling manuals that would be approved and published by the Army Air Forces. However, General Gates, the director of management control, offered a counterproposal that the AAF Board be responsible for the substance of operational manuals, Management Control for administrative manuals, and Materiel and Services for supply and maintenance manuals, with the Training Aids Division preparing all manuscripts for final publication. General Gates’s recommendations were accepted in June at a meeting of representatives from the interested agencies, and the AAF Board was accordingly directed to ensure the continuing of a project to prepare, review, and revise all field service regulations, field manuals, and publications which established AAF operational and training doctrine.  To meet the added responsibilities for preparing the doctrinal publications an