ttle warning time as to make them of little value in case of a general war. On the other hand, Air Force officers maintained that the continued use of these admittedly vulnerable bases gave additional flexibility and efficiency to the strategic attack, added complexity to the timing of a Soviet surprise attack, and permitted the B-47s to operate from ranges nearer to their targets. "The knowledge that SAC is a truly global force," pointed out Lt Gen Walter C. Sweeney, Jr., commander of the Eighth Air Force, "complicates Soviet targeting and dilutes his war effort." In view of the increasing danger of Soviet IRBM attack, the Strategic Air Command began to reduce the size of the Reflex deployment in August 1959, but under Airmail continued to maintain B-47s and their crews on alert at overseas bases.  As he was nearing completion of his long assignment as commander of the Strategic Air Command in the spring of 1957, General LeMay was satisfied with the rate of modernization of the strategic air arm. However, he believed that the Strategic Air Command had made plans that would permit it to maintain its effectiveness both as a deterrent and a war-winning force. Looking toward the era of intercontinental missiles, LeMay’s plan required the development of an all-intercontinental force, including ICBMs, maximum dispersal of aircraft and crews, and maximum ground alert. 67 Because it was concerned about finances  513  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 535 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  and the maintenance of combat-ready capabilities, the Strategic Air Command continued to question Air Force plans to put Snark and Rascal into operation. Snark seemed to be of questionable superiority to other strategic systems and Rascal appeared to be practically useless in an environment requiring alert forces. After attending a briefing in Omaha, Secretary of the Air Force Donald A. Quarles stated on 9 February 1957 that a "tried and proven manned bomber force should not be red