ical bombardment operated within 25,000 yards of the front lines. Its objectives were to assist in the destruction of enemy materiel, to undermine the morale of enemy personnel, and to force hostile aircraft to arise and accept combat by attacking enemy airdromes. Mitchell considered that strategical aviation included pursuit, day-bombardment, and night-bombardment squadrons. The radius of actions of strategical aviation units was usually more than 25,000 yards in advance of friendly troops. The object of strategical aviation was "to destroy the means of supply of an enemy army, thereby preventing it from employing all of its means in combat." Such would be  22  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 44 --- THROUGH WORLD WARI  accomplished, Mitchell stated, by destroying enemy aircraft, air depots, and defensive air organization, as well as enemy depots, factories, lines of communications, and personnel.  The issuance of Mitchell’s "General Principles" apparently coincided both with his assumption of duty as air service commander, Zone of Advance, and with the first arrivals of US Air Service squadrons in France. The 1st Aero Squadron arrived overseas on 3 September 1917, where it was equipped with Salmson aircraft and trained as a corps observation squadron before it was assigned to the front on 8 April 1918. By the Armistice on 11 November 1918, the US Air Service in France would comprise 45 squadrons, including six army observation, 12 corps observation, 20 pursuit, one night-bombardment and six day-bombardment squadrons. Twelve of these squadrons were ultimately equipped with American-built DH-4 aircraft; the other squadrons flew Salmson, Spad, Breguet, or Sopwith Camel planes purchased from the French and British. After training in the inactive Toul sector of the Western Front, US Air Service units were employed in support of the US I Corps at the Marne and Vesel rivers in July and August 1918. The greatest American air action, however, came in support of