e would have to carry out. On 29 November, Eisenhower appointed a board of officers under Lt Gen William H. Simpson and charged it to prepare a definitive plan for the reorganization of the Army and the Army Air  206  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 228 --- AF IN NATIONAL DEFENSE  Forces that could be effectuated by executive orders and that would permit the separation of the air force from the Army. On 15 November, Spaatz had noted that there was a "tendency to over-emphasize long-range bombardment, and to ignore the versatile application of air power." In January 1946, Eisenhower and Spaatz laid aside the concept that all combat air power might be concentrated in the Continental Air Forces and agreed between them that the major commands of the Army Air Forces should be the Strategic Air Command, the Air Defense Command, the Tactical Air Command, the Air Technical Service Command,* the Air Training Command, the. Air University, the Army Air Forces Center, and the Air Transport Command.” Even though the organization of the Tactical Air Command appeared to represent a reversal of earlier expressed concepts that combat air power ought to be capable of both strategic and ground support missions, Spaatz later stated that he organized the Tactical Air Command at his own volition with no pressure from General Eisenhower.  The command reorganization of the Army Air Forces outlined by Eisenhower and Spaatz was keyed to the establishment of the Strategic Air Command, which was Visualized as a long-range striking force equipped with atomic-capable B-29s and possibly B-36s. The Strategic Air Command’s planes would be based in the United States and would be deployed to forward bases if necessary. Effective on 21 March 1946, Headquarters Continental Air Forces was redesignated as Headquarters Strategic Air Command; on 21 October 1946 the new headquarters moved from Bolling Field to Andrews Field, Maryland. In its mission statement, the Strategic Air Command was char