lysis, a development which paralleled the British experience. Having recognized the close relationship between scientific development and warfare during the 1930s, the Royal Air Force (RAF) had gotten good results from using civilians who possessed unusual scientific or analytic talents for operations analysis—a function which was described as the study of operations within a command for the purpose of improving tactics, equipment, methods of training, or methods of supply. In 1940 President Roosevelt named Dr Vannevar Bush, who was then chairman of the National Advisory Committee on Aeronautics, to chair the National Defense Research Committee. Its purpose was "to coordinate, supervise, and conduct scientific research on the problems underlying the development, production, and use of mechanisms and devices of warfare, except scientific research on the problem of flight." In May 1941 Roosevelt expanded the committee into the Office of Scientific Research and Development. As early as April 1942 a group of about 20 civilian analysts began to work with the Navy and the Army Air Forces in search of solutions to the problem of antisubmarine warfare. Dr Edward L. Bowles, the head of the group, ultimately devised the system of radar and related techniques that effectively checked the Nazi submarine menace during the latter half of 1943. At the request of General Spaatz, eight civilian operations analysts joined the Eighth Air Force in the United Kingdom on 15 October 1942. A few days later, on 24 October, General Arnold authorized the establishment of operations analysis sections throughout the Army Air Forces.®  The genesis for this committee came, when in the course of a conversation on the afternoon of 3 December 1942 with General Gates, chief of AAF management control, General Fairchild recalled some of the perplexities that had confronted him as a member of the Joint Strategic Survey Committee of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The Joint Intelligence Committee had made man