ended that the Tactical Air Command’s assigned units be severely reduced, that overseas tactical air forces be augmented, that rotation of tactical air units from the United States to overseas areas be discontinued, and that the Tactical Air Command be reduced to a replacement training mission. The study was based on the key assumption that the Tactical Air Command could not position its tankers to support a mid-Atlantic crossing to implement an emergency war plan without conflicting with the deployments of the Strategic Air Command and the Military Air Transport Service. Weyland protested the drastic changes contemplated in the study. He was willing to accept added training responsibilities, but he was not willing to give up the concept of worldwide tactical air mobility radiating from a central reservoir  527  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 549 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  of strength in the United States. In response to Weyland’s protests, White was unwilling to reject the planning study. However, as had been the case with the tactical-bomber controversy, an interchange of White-Weyland letters resulted in some strengthening of the tactical air position.  The attention focused upon the problem of refueling tactical aircraft during worldwide deployments was wholesome. Tests had already shown that the Strategic Air Command’s KC-97 tankers could be equipped with a boom-to-drogue adapter that would permit them to refuel either bombers or fighters. In February 1959 General LeMay directed that the Air Force seek to establish a single fleet of KC-97 and KC-135 tankers equipped to serve all combat aircraft that required aerial refueling; on 3 May 1960 the Air Force established this single tanker force under the management of the Strategic Air Command.”?” Early in 1959 Brig Gen William W. Momyer, now TAC’s director of plans, stated that the Tactical Air Command would attempt to move to a standardization of its aircraft. He noted that a "multiplicity of wea