et progress in the research and development field."  Many of the witnesses who appeared before the numerous congressional committees that investigated missile and space problems in the winter of 1957-58 agreed, at least by inference, with President Eisenhower’s apparent belief that interservice rivalry had contributed to a lag in technological development. Supporting such an idea when he appeared before Senator Lyndon B. Johnson’s  573  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 595 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Preparedness Investigating Subcommittee in December 1957, Dr Wernher von Braun suggested that a national space agency be set up either under the secretary of defense or as an independent agency, with its own budget and an in-house master planning organization "where competent people would plan a course of action, a stepwise course of action, on how to proceed to attain certain milestones. For example, to put a man into orbit on a returnable basis within the next 5 years, and to have amanned space station, say, in 10 years." President Eisenhower’s scientific adviser, Dr James R. Killian, had written that "it is unreasonable to expect that ideas for radically new weapons will come from the military services." Elaborating this theme in an appearance before the Johnson subcommittee, Dr J. Sterling Livingston, a Harvard University professor of business administration, urged that radically new weapons had seldom been developed to fill military requirements. "I recommend," Livingston said,  that we bypass our existing decisionmaking process in weapons development and that responsibility for the development of radically new weapons and scientific equipment, such as earth satellites and space vehicles, be transferred to an independent scientific agency outside the Defense Establishment. This agency should have full authority to take advantage of scientific breakthroughs without approval or concurrence of the military services. . .. As soon as one of the military s