6. But the Air Corps did not have enough senior personnel to assign to this board; thus, the commandant of the Tactical School and several of its staff members doubled as members of the Air Corps Board.> The chief of the Air Corps also took advantage of the experienced men at Langley by referring problems originating in the War Department to the Air Corps Tactical School for study and comment.  Early in the 1920s the manuals of the Air Corps Tactical School closely followed the ideas expressed in statements of air leaders in Washington. Published early in 1926 when Maj Oscar Westover was commandant, the instructional manual Employment of Combined Air Force envisioned the air arm as coordinate with land and sea forces and having as its aim the destruction of the enemy’s morale and will  62  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 84 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  to resist, preferably by means of attacks against targets in the enemy’s interior. Pursuit aviation was designed to establish localized aerial supremacy; command of the air was held to be temporary and fleeting. Bombardment was said to cooperate with air and ground forces by giving direct support in tactical operations or by giving indirect support to them through strategical operations. 7In the spring of 1928, the Air Corps Tactical School undertook a general revision of its texts; on 30 April Lt Col C. C. Culver, now the school’s commandant, forwarded to Washington a paper entitled "The Doctrine of Air Force," which was proposed as a basis for all texts. This draft doctrine obviously followed the letter of the law set forth in War Department Training Regulation 440-15 and concluded: "In the final analysis, the army is the principal component of the nation’s militia, both the air and the naval forces being used to further its interest. ... The Air component... always supports the ground forces, no matter how decisive its ... operations may be, or how indirect its support." 8 When efforts to revise this statement w