Bomber  160  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 182 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  Commands were based were directed to coordinate B-29 operations with other air operations in their theaters, to construct and defend B-29 bases, and to provide logistical support and common administrative control of the B-29 forces. Should strategic or tactical emergencies arise requiring the use of the B-29 forces for purposes other than the missions assigned to them by the Joint Chiefs, the theater commanders were authorized to use the B-29 forces upon immediately informing the Joint Chiefs of such action. As will be seen, the B-29 command organization would be revised again in 1945. Several years later an Air Force officer described the wartime creation of the Twentieth Air Force as "one of the most important events in United States Air Force history. If that had not occurred," he thought, "we might still be parcelling out our big punch in penny packets to numerous theater and lower commands."  In spite of this improved command structure, the early operations of the Twentieth Air Force’s XX Bomber Command were similar to the early indecisive results of the Eighth Air Force in Europe. What made these results even more disappointing was the fact that the Japanese army and navy air forces had already been reduced to low effectiveness by earlier theater air battles. Like the fledgling Eighth Air Force, the XX Bomber Command was a piecemeal commitment of too little capability to perform effective strategic air attacks. Once again, the available force was employed against long-chance objectives. Called upon to operate the new B-29 planes on very long range missions against priority iron and steel targets in Japan and Manchuria, the XX Bomber Command faced the additional problem of providing logistical support across the Himalayas to the forward operating bases at Chengtu. In final analysis, only about 14 percent of the command’s capability could be employed against the enemy, the re