ef, the committee sought means to extend the range of medium bombers. General Kenney had already urged the development of tracked landing gears that would enable his bombers to operate from hastily prepared airstrips, possibly on the polar ice caps. Another alternative, favored by both the Strategic Air Command and the Air Materiel Command, was to develop air-to-air refueling equipment and to employ tanker aircraft that could refuel strike aircraft en route to a target. Such aerial refueling had been used in 1929 when then Major Spaatz and Captain Eaker had broken the world’s aircraft flight endurance  232  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 254 --- AF IN NATIONAL DEFENSE  record in the Question Mark. Thought had been given to the use of aerial refueling during World War II, but the technique was logistically infeasible for supporting massed bomber attacks that employed iron bombs. As a means of extending the range of fighter-escort aircraft, General Vandenberg had urged aerial refueling in 1945. Aerial refueling would be expensive, however, since two aircraft —a bomber and a tanker — would be required to accomplish a single sortie.  After studying all aspects of the bomber problem, the Heavy Bombardment Committee recognized that the most practical way to extend the range of existing medium bombers and to lighten the design weight of the proposed intercontinental B-52 jet bomber was to develop equipment and techniques for air-to-air refueling of bombers from specially equipped tanker aircraft. Aerial refueling also would permit the B-47 jet bomber, which was still in prototype awaiting a decision for production, to strike far distant targets. The committee, therefore, recommended that air-to-air refueling be developed as a matter of first priority. It, nevertheless, emphasized that the Air Force should not completely close the door on the development of aircraft with built-in range. Since much of the information about the B-36 was still speculative, the pa