ngs to come must . .. know thoroughly the changes in sea power as taught by Mahan, and in land warfare as taught by Clausewitz, which have been wrought not only by new weapons but by air power itself. He must evaluate correctly the effect of air power in combination with land and sea  2  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 24 --- EMERGING PATTERNS  power on a battle, a campaign and a war, and he must know something of the technique by which that effect is produced.  Still further, an Air University study in 1948 stated that the major "obstacle to writing air force doctrine in the past was the rapidity of the development of air power ... from a limited supporting role to its present position of pre-eminence in warfare."!> A 1951 Air War College study observed that, in some cases, senior Air Force officers were said to have discouraged the preparation of air doctrine because they felt that air doctrines were too short-lived to warrant publication. Word of mouth generally sufficed to keep senior air commanders well abreast of Air Force policy, and it was much easier "to scrap the worn out doctrine that remains unpublished than it is to drop a doctrine that has been published." But the basic shortcoming of "verbal doctrine" was that it remained vague. "It is this reluctance to publish as official anything imperfect that restrains our commanders from the dissemination of current doctrine. Until we accept the fact that all doctrine is imperfect . . . and that it is highly changeable we cannot hope for the issuance of doctrine." The same Air War College study noted that, as of 1951, "the air leaders of today are not so old that they can easily forget the punishment meted out to the doctrinaires of the past."!*  Air Force thinkers not only have found it difficult to face the task of codifying the Air Force’s fundamental beliefs, but, as the foregoing quotations reveal, they also have employed a diversity of discourse to categorize these fundamental beliefs. Indeed,