ns from expanding is that we had the Strategic Air Command backing these forces up. In a delayed analysis General LeMay emphasized the role the American military aid and friendly foreign forces had played in the Lebanon and Taiwan efforts. "Assets such as bases and support capabilities as well as many additional items which comprise an effective small war readiness," he said, "are direct results of the Military Assistance Program. Without these benefits, such operations as last year’s deployment of units to .. . both the Mideast and Far East to assist our allies could not have been accomplished."  According to Secretary Brucker and General Taylor, the Lebanon and Quemoy crises were the latest incidents in a pattern of 18 episodes since World War II in which the presence or pressure of Communist forces had been felt and exploited  614  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 636 --- IMPACT OF MISSILES AND SPACE  either directly or indirectly. From this pattern, Brucker drew the lesson that the Communists were using limited war as a device to achieve their objectives on a piecemeal basis. When he was asked to define a limited war, Taylor found it easier to say that a general war was "a war between the United States and the Soviet Union in which they are participating and in which atomic weapons are used freely from the outset." A limited war was "any military conflict short of a general war, one in which our national existence is not at stake." Taylor described Lebanon as "perhaps the extreme of the small limited war," and he believed that the advanced warning, limited force requirement, and lack of combat operations made conditions so favorable for the success of the Lebanon operation as to make it imprudent to attempt to draw conclusions from the experience. Taylor also admitted under questioning that no Army forces would have been required in a Formosan operation. "If we had to go into Formosa in sizable strength," he said, "... it would be largely an air and naval op