ome form of theater troop carrier headquarters, which could employ the transport planes interchangeably for airlift or air assault operations. The organization in the European theater included the establishment of a combined air transport operations room (CATOR) in the Air Staff, Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Forces, the assignment of the IX Troop Carrier Command to the First Allied Airborne Army, and the activation of the 302d Transport Wing under the Air Service Command, USSTAF. Lt Gen Lewis H. Brereton, commander of the First Allied Airborne Army, subsequently complained that CATOR emphasized the logistical employment of his troop carrier crews to the detriment of their preparation for airborne operations. Other commanders, however, stated that the removal of aircraft from airlift operations for intensive air assault training and for the execution of airborne missions adversely deprived them of badly needed logistical support.!  "We have learned and must not forget," Arnold informed Secretary Stimson on 27 February 1945, "that from now on air transport is an essential of air power, in fact, of all national power. ... We must have an air transport organization in being, capable of tremendous expansion."!87 In spite of this positive statement, the Army Air Forces was not too certain about the manner in which troop carrier and air transport aviation ought to be organized; there was a considerable sentiment that the two functions ought to be combined. At this time, Brig Gen William D. Old, commander of the I Troop Carrier Command, vigorously dissented from the proposals for combination and instead suggested that Army Airborne Forces should be established under the War Department on a parity with the Army Air Forces, Army Ground Forces, and Army Service Forces. Based in part upon studies conducted in OC&R and at the AAF Board, Arnold decided on 5 December 1945 that the Army Air Forces would retain the Air Transport Command to support the strategic air forc