eter the Soviets."  Tactical Air Operations  In accordance with the terms of the United Nations Security Council resolution of 27 June 1950, the mission of the United Nations Command forces in Korea during the summer of 1950, as detailed by Secretary Johnson, was "to stabilize, to build up the necessary equipment to go forward, and . . . to go forward to the thirty-eighth parallel." ? Although somewhat hampered at first by the fact that it was equipped and trained for the air defense of Japan rather than for offensive employment, the Far East Air Forces committed most of its Japan-based Fifth Air Force to the Korean conflict. Assisted by carrier-based aircraft from the US Seventh Fleet, the Fifth Air Force easily destroyed the small North Korean air force, thus establishing local air superiority over Korea in the opening weeks of the war. To permit outnumbered United Nations ground forces to trade space for time and to prevent the North Korean People’s Army (NKPA) from overrunning all of South Korea, Fifth Air Force and Seventh Fleet fighter-bombers and FEAF Bomber Command B-29s devoted an exceptionally large proportion of their capabilities to the support of the friendly group troops. In the emergency, air bombardment had to compensate for deficiencies in Army artillery support fire. In these same weeks understrength US Army divisions from Japan were committed piecemeal to the battle front in what seemed at first to be a futile effort to halt the Communist ground offensive. Speaking on 28 July to the question of why tactical air power had not stopped the North Korean ground attack, Secretary Finletter explained: "Tactical air power must be in relationship to Ground Forces. Tactical air power alone cannot win a war — any more than Ground Forces alone could win awar.... A force of ground troops is a kind of composite power of ground elements and air elements which support them." If opposing ground armies have capabilities which "are at all even," Finletter postulated