ploy nuclear weapons to destroy the enemy's nuclear stockpiles and delivery capabilities. Leghorn described his proposals as a counterforce strategy, but his plan to limit nuclear weapons to battlefield targets fell rather neatly into the definition of what retired Rear Adm Sir Anthony W. Buzzard, British Royal Navy, would conceive to be graduated deterrence. Buzzard proposed to return nuclear war to the tactical battlefield and to avoid strategic nuclear attacks against towns and cities unless such proved to be absolutely essential.”  Air Force leaders found much that was acceptable in the proposed counterforce strategy. Writing in the winter of 1954-55, Col Robert C. Richardson II, air member to the NATO Standing Group in Washington, suggested that at the outset of hostilities, adversaries armed with nuclear weapons would direct their blows against target systems that offered quick payoffs, such as combat formations of all arms and services.’! General LeMay emphasized that the Strategic Air Command’s primary war mission would be the enemy’s atomic capability. "I think," LeMay said, "it is generally conceded by all military personnel in this day and age, [that] you must win the air power battle, gain air superiority, before you can conduct any other type of military operation." Maj Gen John Samford, Air Force director of intelligence, was frankly skeptical about any proposal to make direct attacks against the psychological strength of the enemy. He knew no way in which target planners could estimate the effect of direct attacks against an enemy’s will to wage war. Thus, he favored attacks against hostile military and industrial targets where effects of destruction could be better predicted and the results of incremental reductions could be more accurately measured.’> There was general agreement in the Air Force that a future war would allow little or no time for mobilization. The Air Materiel Command accepted the policy that the decisive phase of a future general w