5,000-mile-range missile probably could be developed in five years. The Air Force, however, could not bear the expense of such a program and had to progress on the research and development effort at a more leisurely pace, which might produce an intercontinental missile in 10 to 15 years. "We cannot," Eaker said, ".. . abandon the development of the very long-range very heavy bomber as a primary weapon of our long-range striking force but we should, as a wise precaution, spend the necessary experimental funds to insure that we are the first in the field with a long-range guided missile which may be the primary weapon at some future date, but probably not within 15 years." As it happened, however, the Air Force was compelled to give even more emphasis in spending its scarce research and development funds to the support of the Air Force in being than Eaker had thought would be necessary. These projects included range extension, long-range strategic aerial reconnaissance, new jet bombers, high-thrust aircraft propulsion systems, short-range airborne guided missiles, and high-speed fighters.!”? In 1947 the Air Force reevaluated its guided missile requirements and gave priorities to research and development projects that promised to increase the capabilities of the Air Force in being. The new order of priority for missiles included: (1) missiles to enhance strategic air bombardment with conventional aircraft, (2) air defense missiles, (3) surface-to-surface missiles, and (4) interim missiles to include guided bombs and drone aircraft. Under this criteria and because of shortages of funds, the missile project MX-774 was not renewed in 1948, but the Consolidated-Vultee Aircraft Corporation continued some studies in the intercontinental ballistic missile field with its own funds.»  Emerging Soviet Threats  In the winter of 1946-47 the United States began to recognize that its policy of cooperation with the Soviet Union was rapidly breaking down. The antics of the Soviet repr