mony, President Eisenhower on 4 May discounted the charge that the United States was lagging behind the Soviet Union. "We have," he told reporters, "the most powerful Navy in the world... and it features one thing, airpower. ... Now we have got a tremendous airpower, a mobile air power, in the sea forces."’” Preferring to speak about deterrent power rather than air power, Secretary Wilson stated that "primary deterrent power" rested in the Strategic Air Command, but he emphasized that this force was supplemented by "atomic capable aircraft with carrier task forces constantly deployed overseas; the atomic bombing capability of aircraft of our tactical air forces deployed overseas and ever on the alert; and the atomic capability of our surface-to-surface guided missile and artillery units also deployed overseas.""* When questioned on these matters by the Symington committee in  439  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 461 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  July, General Twining conceded that naval aircraft could make a valuable contribution to the air power battle, provided carrier air attacks were possible against Soviet airfield targets immediately after a war’s beginning and were coordinated with Air Force attacks. He pointed out, however, that the Navy had important primary control-of-the-sea missions, that no one could be sure where naval carriers would be physically located or what targets their planes would be prepared to strike immediately after H-hour. For those reasons, Twining asserted that "the strategic air force has to be just as big, just as strong, and just as ready regardless of this Navy contribution on these targets I am talking about."  After considering this course of efforts to define air power, the Air War College Evaluation Staff offered a more cohesive definition early in 1957. "Air power," it said, "is the hard core of any modern defense organization. It comprises those military resources, together with their effective command, control a