aging work on the board. Recognizing that Lt Col Edgar P. Sorenson, who took over as Air Corps Board director in January 1940, faced personnel difficulties, the Air Corps directed him to use Air Corps Tactical School people where possible and to call in experts from other air commands to perform needed research. Using temporary duty personnel, the board completed drafts of each of the required  105  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 127 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  tactics and techniques manuals and forwarded them to Washington early in May 1940, where they were subsequently published with little or no revision.!”  Asa part of the Army’s First Aviation Objective and in view of the establishment of the 23d Composite Group at Maxwell Field for test and demonstration purposes, Col Walter R. Weaver, commandant of the Air Corps Tactical School, proposed on 17 January 1940 that an Air Corps tactical center be established at Maxwell with academic, research, and test departments. Weaver also recommended that the Air Corps Board be reorganized to comprise the commander of the tactical center and three departmental directors. General Arnold was willing to commend the proposal, but he was unwilling to act on it. He specifically feared that the Air Corps Board might become a rubber stamp agency for academicians at Maxwell.!”6  Because nearly all regular air officers had completed the Tactical School as a result of the accelerated courses and because the Air Corps needed Maxwell as the site for a new southeast training center, effective 30 June 1940, the Tactical School was accordingly suspended and its faculty was reduced to seven caretaker officers. Looking at the new state of affairs in September 1940, Arnold asked his Plans Division why the Air Corps Board should not be brought to Washington and put to work evaluating information received from Europe. The Plans Division agreed that the board ought to evaluate these lessons but it considered that it was "vital th