and external Soviet pressure. In view of the deterioration of relations with the Soviet Union, General Spaatz began to speak openly of a war with "a continental empire" and the ‘problem of winning against great masses of people with great internal resources." 2  With full support from the War Department, Spaatz submitted a budget for fiscal year 1948 that would have permitted the Army Air Forces to attain a minimum, permanent postwar strength of 70 groups and 22 separate squadrons. The Bureau of the Budget, however, reduced the air request to an amount sufficient to maintain a peacetime strength of only 55 groups and 17 separate squadrons. The Air Force, nevertheless, obtained authority to base its procurement and training objectives on a 70-group strength and to activate 15 groups and five squadrons that would not be manned or equipped.* In appearances before the House Subcommittee on Appropriations, Spaatz emphasized America’s vulnerability to air attack from across the Arctic and urged that the only way to prevent bombs from falling on the United States "is to get them at the place they start from, and that is primarily our mission." Maj Gen Otto P. Weyland, chief of AAF plans, pointed out that America’s air strategy was one of defense and retaliation. "It is conceivable," said Weyland, "that the United States will start an aggressive war. Hence, it is obvious that at the start of a war, we will be the recipient of an all-out surprise attack.">>  In May 1947 Congress appropriated the $400 million that President Truman requested as aid for Greece and Turkey, thus indicating approval for the Truman doctrine’s objective of containing Soviet expansion. The first session of the 80th Congress was reluctant to vote military appropriations in the amounts requested. The House made a 10-percent cut in the AAF budget; part of it was restored by the Senate but only after General Eisenhower made a personal plea to get the money.!>° Some of the reluctance to vote military prep