proposal did not please the Air War College inasmuch as it considered the evaluation function to be germane to the college’s educational function. However, an Air University study committee pointed out that the war college mission already required it "to promote sound concepts of the broad aspects of air power in order to assure the most effective development and  380  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 402 --- AF WRITES ITS DOCTRINE  employment of the air arm." Effective on 9 October 1950, the Evaluation Division was transferred from the Academic Staff to the Air War College where it was redesignated as the Evaluation Staff. But, as has been noted, the Air Force directed on 26 September that the production of doctrinal manuals should be held up pending the completion of the JAAF publication.*!  Even though the Air University had not completed a basic doctrinal manual on air power before it was directed to suspend work on the project, it had generated several ideas as to what the doctrine ought to be. In the summer of 1950, Gen Hoyt S. Vandenberg had stated: "Tactical and strategic air power is part of the same ball of wax." Finletter had said: "Tactical air and strategic air are merely handles which have been developed to identify different functions, each of which is indispensable and each of which fits into the overall integrated structure of air power." While attending the weapons orientation course at Sandia, New Mexico, Barker was distressed to hear an Air Force instructor present a concept that the Tactical Air Command had functions distinct from those of the rest of the Air Force. Barker observed that the Air Force had revolted at the idea of assigning aviation in small packages to corps and armies, but he wondered if the Air Force might not be violating this same principle "by tying up, within the Air Force, pieces of aviation, each designed for a particular job." In the autumn of 1950 Barker collaborated with Col Dale O. Smith in the publication of an ar