- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 248 --- AF IN NATIONAL DEFENSE  Force. ... I regard the Navy, the Air Force, and the Army as you would the three legs of a stool . .. and I think each one of those forces must be strong enough to carry out the mission which is assigned to it." Secretary of the Navy John L. Sullivan argued that "any de-emphasis in Naval aviation spells the end of America’s control of the sea." "During the war," he said,  England learned that whenever a sufficient number of German bombers came over on a determined raid, enough of them got through to give a great deal of trouble. ... Later on, when the bombs kept coming over it was most apparent that the only defense against determined air attack or guided missiles—and the same proves true in the atomic techniques — the only defense is to. .. put a very large number of men on ships, transport them overseas and capture the platforms from which those weapons were launched.  ”  "I believe in air power, without ‘ifs,’ ‘buts,’ or ‘howevers’," stated former Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson. "I believe that our national defense should be centered on air power ... toa far greater degree than is the case at present. It is my opinion . . . that we will not need the strongest Army in the world or the strongest standing Navy in the world, but we will need the strongest Air Force in the world."! 77 Secretary of the Army Kenneth C. Royall described air power as  "our first line of defense in the event of war," but, in view of the fact that World War II had had "to be won by tanks, guns and men, on the ground," he asked the commission "not to forget that the Navy and the Army, as well as the Air Forces must be taken into account in cutting up shares of national defense. 78 Representing views of a scientist, Dr Carl T. Compton, president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, stated that the question of whether more powerful nuclear weapons could be developed was still in the realm of speculation. However, he fe