. Our present Strategic Air Force is well conceived, well manned and well led, but it is only a token force. The Strategic Air Force will not be able to destroy the Russian industrial complex until it destroys the Russian Air Force and wins command of the air.  Writing in April, General Spaatz called upon the United States to provide the minimum divisions required to give Western Europe the courage to build up its strength; but he decried the acceptance of the "wall of the flesh strategy," which he said was "the prevailing philosophy in Washington today." Spaatz stated that the Soviet Union had built up a 10-to-1 superiority in jet fighters over the United States. "While we pursue the wall of flesh philosophy," he said, "we are losing the first and crucial battle in any possible war with Russia—the battle for command of the air."  Many Republican senators opposed the commitment of American ground forces to the defense of Europe. However, on 3 April 1951 Sen Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., led a bipartisan effort that defeated a joint resolution that would have forbidden Truman from sending more than four divisions to Europe. Another resolution calling upon Truman to send no ground troops until the Joint Chiefs certified that "sufficient air strength will be available to control the air over western Europe to the degree necessary to assure the safety and effectiveness of US ground troops" was also defeated. On 4 April the Senate passed a resolution approving the commitment of the four additional divisions to Europe, but only if the Joint Chiefs of Staff certified that this was an essential step in strengthening the security of the United States.'” Writing to Lodge on 6 April, Prof W. Barton Leach agreed that the additional divisions ought to be sent to Europe; however, he asked Lodge to consider that the placing of so many troops and their dependents in "a fight-to-the-death combat zone" would be "a very serious matter unless a counterpoise to Soviet air power in this area i