ds, and its improved electronic countermeasures, could still perform the job it was designed to do. Furthermore, because of the human intelligence factor aboard, the bomber strike force has the added advantages of recall capability and greater flexibility in target selection and tactics.  Missiles for Air Defense and Air-Ground Support  From a purely theoretical viewpoint, ground-launched guided missiles appeared to have unique qualifications that fitted them for employment in both air defense and tactical air warfare missions. A missile could maneuver more abruptly than a piloted aircraft, it had a greater range per pound of vehicle, it was capable of greater operational altitude, its automatic delivery system eliminated many human frailties and errors, and it could operate at speeds far superior to manned aircraft. Also a missile could operate at night and in all kinds of weather without degraded capabilities. Since no pilot would need to be protected from a weapon’s blast, a Bomarc could be provided with a large nuclear warhead. In a 24-hour air defense alert, manned fighter efficiency degenerated as men got tired, but a guided missile did not become fatigued and it did not wear out unless it was fired. In tactical employment, Matador missiles could be operated from widely dispersed field installations, thus augmenting security against hostile attack.  But while missiles appeared to be well fitted to air defense and tactical air missions, few defense strategists agreed on the exact proportions of these missions that could eventually be performed with them. In September 1956 General Lindsay predicted that "only about thirty percent of tactical targets would probably be  520  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 542 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  suitable for attack by guided missiles," but he thought that in the air defense mission guided missiles "may be capable of taking over a greater percentage of the job than in any of the other areas." Appreciation for the unique q