Minister Churchill predicted: "In three to four years’ time . . . the Soviets will probably stand possessed of hydrogen bombs and the means of delivering them not only on the United Kingdom but also on North American targets... . It does not follow, however, that the risk of war will then be greater. Indeed, it is arguable that it will be less, for both sides will then realize that global war would result in mutual annihilation.""4 In the United States, scientist Robert A. Oppenheimer coined the simile that war between thermonuclear powers would be equivalent to a battle to the death between two scorpions in a bottle. "No great war can ever again be won," said Dr Vannevar Bush, "it can only end with the partial or complete annihilation of both contestants." > In October 1955 Secretary of the Air Force Donald A. Quarles referred to the creation of "a stalemate through deterrent strength" as being, "paradoxically, our best hope for peace." Secretary Wilson observed in January 1956: "I assure you that in my opinion everybody is going to lose in the next war. .. . The hope of the world [is] that by having a stalemate long enough sensible men of good will throughout the world could try to get some formula for establishing peace in the world."1  At first the concept of nuclear stalemate was thought to be a condition that would have some possible benefit to the United States, but with the passing of time some defense analysts began to promote the idea that a condition of finely balanced mutual deterrence would be very advantageous to the whole world. In 1959 Prof Oskar Morgenstern advanced the idea that it would be beneficial to maintain a nuclear stalemate, even by the expedient of strengthening Soviet forces by weakening US power. "In order to preserve a nuclear stalemate," Morgenstern wrote, "it is necessary for both sides to possess invulnerable retaliatory forces. ... In view of modern technology of speedy weapons delivery from any point on earth to any other, it is i