led the Army and Navy to "buy" their space boosters from the Air Force, since under this directive the "problem of wedding the payload and the vehicle must be settled by such anemic devices as committees, coordination officers, and other such inadequate administrative devices." He again proposed that responsibility for a national space program ought to be unified within the Department of Defense. Continued division of efforts in missile-space technology, he said, "cannot but result in delay, duplication, and waste of both money and manpower." When asked how much support he had for his proposal to establish a unified missile-space command, Medaris replied: "I can only comment that within the evening councils of the renegades of our business, I have a great deal of support. "139 This support, however, failed to appear during the congressional hearings. Lt Gen James M. Gavin (US Army, Retired) observed that he would be "very worried to see major portions of our space program in DOD; however well intentioned they were, they couldn’t bees money, whereas I know that NASA can and very likely will for several years." ° Admiral Hayward reiterated his familiar proposal that the United States should follow the "Atomic Energy Commission approach to the whole space program." The Army now apparently subscribed to this same approach to the problem, for General Trudeau also came out for "the creation of a Military Liaison Committee patterned after the committee provided by law to function between the Department of Defense and the Atomic Energy Commission." Trudeau thought that his committee could well replace the ineffective Civilian-Military Liaison Committee.!4!  When he appeared before the House Committee on Science and Astronautics, Dr William H. Pickering, director of NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, agreed that the nation required a single space program; but he asserted that the program should be attained by strengthening NASA "to the point where it effectively controls a co