s the Twentieth operated virtually at will over Japan during July; after 4 July, General Kenney’s Far East Air Forces began to strike targets on Kyushu from bases on Okinawa. During the Okinawa crisis, General LeMay had supported naval operations without demur. He had other thoughts, however, when Adm William F. Halsey requested on 14 July that the B-29s fly maximum effort strikes against airfields in the Tokyo area on 24-25 July and again on 1-2 August to support Third Fleet carrier air strikes into the Tokyo-Nagoya areas. LeMay protested that it was foolish to expend 6,500 tons of B-29 bombs to protect the carriers while their aircraft would be dropping 500 tons of bombs. He agreed, however, to use Iwo-based fighters in support of the Third Fleet strikes. Thinking differently, the Joint Chiefs ordered LeMay to employ the B-29s as Halsey requested. On 24 and 25 July, Iwo-based P-51s were sent out against airfields in the Tokyo area, but bad target weather somehow prevented B-29 attacks, which were diverted to their original strategic targets.  General Spaatz, arriving on Guam on 29 July, began organizing the United States Army Strategic Air Forces — work which would not be completed before the war’s end. If the organization had been fully accomplished, the Eighth and Twentieth Air Forces would have controlled a total of 49 B-29 groups. As it was, General Doolittle established the Eighth Air Force on Okinawa on 19 July, but its first B-29 wing was still getting into place when Japan surrendered.  Before reaching the theater, Spaatz had been briefed on the atomic bomb, which the 509th Composite Group on Tinian would drop on a target designated by Washington as soon as it could be delivered from laboratory production. Escorted only by photo planes, a 509th Group B-29 dropped the first atomic bomb against Hiroshima on 6 August. Three days later another of the group’s B-29s dropped the second atomic bomb over Nagasaki. In haste, the Soviet Union declared war on Japan. O