h absolute deterrence" because reconnaissance eyes in outer space would permit "immediate warning of hostile action on the surface of the Earth" and would allow "much faster reaction on our part .. . which is not only quick, but strong and selective." In response to a question as to how space could be controlled, White responded: "One of the ways to control the sea in time of war and stress is the blockade. . . . I think the same thing conceivably could apply to existing from the Earth’s natural envelope into space." It would probably be better to seek to control a hostile nation’s access to space than its reentry into the atmosphere. "You couldn’t have reentry," he said, "if you kept people from getting out there."  Although there was a general recognition that Air Force studies of space "had only scratched the surface of the problem,'>”* the Air Force had made a good start in rationalizing a new aerospace doctrine. On 29 November 1957 an editorial prepared by the Air Force Office of Information Internal Information Division, first combined the words air and space when it referred to "air/space vehicles of the future." The word aerospace was apparently coined by Dr Woodford A. Heflin of the Air University’s Research Studies Institute who published an Interim Glossary, Aero-Space Terms, on 23 February 1958.°*? In view of the new thinking, the Air Policy Branch, Air Force Office of Deputy Chief of Staff (Plans and Programs) proposed on 25 April 1958 that Air Force Manual 1-2, United States Air Force Basic Doctrine, should be revised. The Air Policy Branch proposed that the new doctrine should state that air power had "moved naturally and inevitably to higher altitudes and higher speeds until it now stands on the threshold of space operation." A new term, aerospace meaning "air and space," had come into being, and aerospace power was its manifestation. The Air Force was the military agency predominantly responsible for aerospace doctrine just as in the past it had bee