ad figures to General White, Parrish and Martin obtained approval to wargame the no-city counterforce strategy onthe Air Force’s air-battle-model computer. No matter how the situation or the force levels were changed, the no-city counterforce plan promised tremendous savings of American and Soviet life. °  Although the no-city plan was not yet a strategy, the air-battle-model results confirmed General White’s belief that a city-destroying war did not make sense. In a landmark address delivered to the Air Force Association in September 1960, White stated: "As I see it, effective deterrence includes the possession of military forces to deter and, should war occur, the military strength to prevail. There are two key thoughts here: deter and prevail. It might appear that this is a contradiction since the ability to prevail in war is needful only if our policy of deterrence fails. Nevertheless, the ability to prevail is what provides real and effective deterrence."“"’ In a subsequent message to all air commands, White soon directed that all Air Force personnel should understand counterforce and its difference  628  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 650 --- IMPACT OF MISSILES AND SPACE  from minimum deterrence. "By counterforce," the message stated, "the Air Force means the ability to selectively and decisively destroy enemy military forces that could otherwise destroy us.  Writing in the winter of 1960-61, Colonel Martin explained the Air Force conception of counterforce. Martin defined the Air Force’s objectives in general war as being to gain military dominance over the enemy by the destruction of his military force, to limit damage to the United States and its allies, and, by so doing, to achieve a favorable outcome of the hostilities. On the basis of the no-city wargame studies, Martin presented a comparison of the costs of the finite deterrence-terror strategy as opposed to a warfighting counterforce strategy. If an aggressor launched an attack against Un