ecome an actuality. The announced policy of the War Department continued to be one of planning and building an adequate defense of the Western Hemisphere rather than preparing expeditionary forces. The War Department, nevertheless, anticipated that the war in Europe would indicate the desirability of many changes, particularly in reference to air forces, since this was the first time in history that powerful air forces had been available for use in a war between major powers.  Although the initial Luftwaffe operations in Poland were mainly in support of German ground forces, American air officers generally agreed that their theoretical doctrines were being substantiated in combat. At the Air Corps Tactical School, Lt Col Donald Wilson wrote in September that Hitler’s air force had "voluntarily undertaken the job of demonstrating our theories." The Luftwaffe had established control of the air by destroying the Polish air force on its airfields; it had conducted strong attacks against Poland’s lines of communications; and then it had supported the invading ground armies in a blitzkrieg attack.!8 Operating under conditions of almost complete air superiority, the Ju-87 Stuka dive-bomber proved to be very effective for delivering firepower and inflicting terror. Air Corps officers, however, were quick to note that the Stuka was operating only against sparse, small caliber antiaircraft fire. They predicted that it would not be able to defend itself against determined opposition in the air.!°?  As he looked at the German campaign in Poland, however, General Arnold was far from happy. On 14 November 1939 Arnold stated that the doctrine so widely propounded in Air Corps circles for so many years to the effect that fighter aircraft could not shoot down large bombardment aircraft flying in defensive formations had been "proven wholly untenable." Arnold blamed the problem on the teachings of the Air Corps Tactical School and the fact that older and higher ranking Air Corps offi