ommon with the other members of the Joint Chiefs, Vandenberg supported the administration’s plan to augment the NATO surface forces. "If we do have a strong strategic air arm," he explained,  we would be able to knock out the industrial potential of an enemy country. The effect of that would take some time. In other words, down on the front lines, where there have been stockpiles of ammunition, food, gasoline, transportation, in the short distance that we are viewing in Western Europe I am of the opinion that without a delaying force it would be possible [for the Soviet forces] to move to the coast in spite of the fact that we did or were able to knock out [their] industrial potential... . The greatest effect, in my opinion, from that strategic effort would be if we had a force in place that was adequate to insure that they used up their stockpile of squipment and held them so that Western Europe could be saved from being overrun.  In an interview in January 1951, de Seversky favored giving all possible assistance to European nations to permit them to rearm, but he wished to ensure that European rearmament would be orderly. "Russia will not sit passively by and  320  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 342 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  tolerate our building a European army that eventually will be able to challenge it," he said. He noted further that  Russia will nip that undertaking in the bud, unless we find means of deterring Russia while the reconstruction of European strength is going on. Only American long-range air power which has the vitality to denude Russia of its sinews of war, operating directly from the United States and partially from Great Britain, from bases inaccessible to Russian armies, can deter Russia from interfering with the rearmament of Europe. ... Our present Strategic Air Force is well conceived, well manned and well led, but it is only a token force. The Strategic Air Force will not be able to destroy the Russian industrial complex until it