ng under the direction of the secretary of defense, the Joint Chiefs of Staff reviewed missile research and development projects in the autumn of 1949. As a result of this examination, primary responsibilities for research and development of short-range surface-to-air missiles were allocated to the Army and Navy.” At this time the Boeing Company appeared to be making good progress in developing the Air Force ground-to-air pilotless aircraft missile. But the Army had begun to develop the Nike-Ajax missile in 1945 and the Navy was developing Terrier and Talos antiaircraft missiles, either of which might have met Air Force requirements for point-defense weapons. The Air Force, moreover, recognized that a tremendous number of beam-riding antiaircraft missiles with a 25-mile range would be required to defend the continental United States. In view of these factors and the decision of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Air Force stopped development of the GAPA missile in November 1949 and contracted with Boeing and the University of Michigan to investigate the feasibility of a250-mile-range interceptor missile plus an associated electronic control system. The feasibility study was approved during 1950; a development contract was awarded formally in December for a Bomarc (Boeing and Michigan Aeronautical Research Center) weapon system.°° Based on the Joint Chiefs of Staff review, the Air Force resolved not to attempt to develop missiles suited for close support of ground forces. The Air Force position was that close support missiles ought to be handled by the Army as an improvement of its battlefield artillery. Both the Air Force and the Research and Development Board kept the Matador tactical missile under scrutiny during 1949 to determine if its 350-mile range should be extended or if the missile should be dropped from development. Compared with other missiles, however, the Matador was essentially simple. It was, in effect, a subsonic, pilotless fighter aircraft that was guid