enth, Air Force as an operational headquarters at Foster AFB, Texas, on 8 July 1955.\8 In announcing the establishment of what would be called the Composite Air Strike Force, General White pointed out that the Tactical Air Command’s nuclear strike and aerial-refueling capabilities had brought a "new look" to tactical air forces. "To meet the threat of lesser wars," he said, "our tactical air forces can provide an increasingly effective deterrent." pe During 1955 and 1956 General Weyland frequently stated his belief that the free world faced an era of periphery 0 or brushfire wars that would have to be deterred or won with tactical air forces.’°° In May 1956 he told the Symington committee that the United States "must have adequate tactical air forces in being that are capable of serving as a deterrent to the brushfire type of war just as SAC is the main deterrent to a global war." 51 Presenting his "Concept for Employment of Tactical Air Worldwide" to the Air Staff at about this same time, Weyland argued:  It is becoming increasingly clear that any armed conflict which may occur in the foreseeable future will most probably be of the limited or local variety. The United States must develop an effective deterrent to such local wars and must be able to support the indigenous forces of friendly countries if such a war does occur. SAC and ADC are dedicated as major war deterrents and their postures and concepts are limited to major war Situations. SAC forces are not suited for and cannot cope with the essentially tactical air aspects of local wars. Nor should they become seriously involved in a local war, since they would jeopardize their effect as a deterrent to major war. Consequently, tactical air power must be the primary deterrent to local or limited war. Additionally, it must be the full-fle ace but more economical element of our offensive air power as a general war deterrent.  In September 1956 Brig Gen Henry P. Viccellio, commander of the Nineteenth Air Force, de