e the United States has always been a defense-minded nation, the nature of the hostile threat has been the greatest stimulant to military thinking. Air Force thinking also has been reactive to the activities and ideas of other defense services. Thus, it is frequently necessary that Departments of Defense, Army, and Navy positions and actions be noted in order that readers may better understand Air Force thinking. The focus of the narrative on the Air Force dictated that the views of others be presented, but in shorter compass. Since this procedure inevitably oversimplified the views of the Office of Secretary of Defense (OSD) and the other services, an informed reader ought to consult the works of such military thinkers as Generals Matthew B. Ridgway, Maxwell D. Taylor, and James M. Gavin, and, certainly, Robert S. McNamara’s The Essence of Security, Reflections in Office.  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 16 --- This revised two-volume history is an extended version of Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine: A History of Basic Thinking in the United States Air Force, 1907-1964, which the author completed during 1961-64. This original book was first published in 1971 by the Aerospace Studies Institute, Air University, in a two-volume format; it was reprinted in 1974 as a single volume in the numbered-text series of the Air University as AU-19. In view of a continuing demand for the book, the author was brought back from retirement at the end of September with a two-year contract revision of the original book as necessary'to bring it up to date, as of 1984.  Mss DREW, Colonel, USAF  Director, Airpower Research Institute Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education  Xili  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 17 --- Original from UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN  Digitized by Google  2 16o06-pd#esn ssao9e/fuo*isnsiaty rey mmm//:diizy / peztit6tp-2 16009 ‘utewog IT1qGNd 9689TPZOOZTTOE Ontn/zzZoZ/JeU'a,pueYy py//:sdyiy / IWD €O:bT ZT-OL-vZOZ UO