d the theory and its ends, the airplane was the only means for fulfillment of its ends. Therefore, they could afford to sell the theory in the terms of its serious ends rather than its more joyous means. The buyers were mostly those who had to support politically and financially the buildup and employment of air power. They were not particularly interested in the means, but in the ends—how wars might be won quickly without the hideous bloodshed often seen in land warfare. Air power promised the ends they sought. Could they doubt the theory when the only thing they were uncertain about, the technical means, were so enthusiastically and confidently endorsed by the experts—the aviators? The contract, steadfastly pursued by air power enthusiasts on both sides (buyers and sellers), became the basis for the buildup and employ­ ment of military aviation and, ultimately, a separate institution devoted to air power and run by aviators. B ut to sell the theory of air power beyond the airplane enthusiasts (who didn't need to be sold) the aviators had several good reasons for sublimating their deeper affections for the means: • Devotion to the ends was more altruistic or ennobling than the sheer joy of the means;  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 55 --- 32 The Icarus Syndrome • The ends of the theory were more appealing than the means to the public which held the purse strings and would have to send its "boys" off to fight in foreign wars; and • Since the means were unique (the aviators thought) to the ends, acceptance of the ends would (it logically followed) ensure acquisition of the means. Until the 1950s, the alternatives to the airplane as means to fulfill the ends of air power—such as dirigibles, blimps, and then helicopters— represented only marginal encroachments in terms of their capabilities. The major threats to the theory were challenges to its basic tenets: that air power could be decisive if wielded independently. Just as the advocates of the theory implicitl