opportunity to break out from under the domination of the bomber pilots. General Jimmy Doolittle, then commanding the Eighth Air Force in England gave his permission for the fighters escorting his bombers "to range away from the bomber formations and seek out the enemy."  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 150 --- The Praetioners 127 Doolittle's decision also reflected the offensive spirit of General Arnold's New Year (1944) message to his commanders: "Destroy the enemy Air Force wherever you find them, in the air, on the ground and in the factories." [William] Kepner was quick to see that new opportunities to exploit fighter flexibility were on the horizon. On January 17,1944, he issued a prophetic message to the pilots of his command: A fighter pilot must be able to use his versatile weapon in whatever way will do the greatest damage to the enemy.. .high or low, near or far, protecting bombers, destroying enemy fighters, preparing the way for our advancing ground troops, cutting the supply lines, strafing airdromes and other necessary missions.... Be ready. Today we are flying high altitude escort for heavy bombers. Tomorrow...? That offensive philosophy suited the fighter pilot temperament. And, as the message had forecast, VIII Fighter Command's turn to the offensive did not stop with bomber escort. Col. Glen Duncan, Commander of the 353d Fighter Group, started something new early in 1944. He led his flight in a strafing attack on a German airfield as they were returning from what had been an uneventful escort mission. One pilot described this armed buzzing as "roaring down at terrific speeds on a chosen object, zooming over it with inches to spare—and the closer the better—add the hazards of flak and ground fire and you have a sport that is practically irresistible." Duncan's experiment soon grew to be a major (and unauthorized) tactic in VIII Fighter Command.8 In the Pacific theater of operations, the balance between strategic and tactical air operations wa