d communication among them­ selves represent a new and obvious challenge to the authority and, hence, the power of the nation-state. The power of information and the potential challenge to the nation- state of its diffusion were recognized even before the beginning of the current information revolution. The efforts of the nation-states to seize and control the sources of information and the means of communication are well documented in history and fiction. They include the efforts of the Nazis to destroy literature subversive to the state's interests and to exploit the centrally controlled means of communication for state propaganda. Orwell's vision of the future contemplated the extremes of such efforts. The communist bloc came close to (and in some places, may have achieved) Orwell's vision; but, judging by the events of the past few years, they were unable to persist against the expanding technical means for the diffusion of information. In summary, there appears to be a significant shift in the locus of power, from the geographically defined nation-state to individuals and their free associations in factions and enterprises which are increasingly  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 263 --- 240 The Icarus Syndrome independent of geography. That shift is the result of developments in the information technologies, accelerating over the past 40 years, which have radically changed the speed, amount, and quality of information avail­ able to individuals. The power of that immediate, free, and abundant information in the hands of individuals is proving itself to be increasingly capable of challenging, undermining, or rendering impotent the tradi­ tional powers vested in the nation-state in all of its forms—political, economic, and military. Of course, that shift is not yet complete. The developed world appears to be in a transition period where the sources of power—in things or in information—and the trustees of power—the nation-state or the individ­ ual—are still i