vett in the reconstituted position of Assistant Secretary of War for Air. A brilliant Wall Street investment banker, Lovett had been a Navy flier in World War I and was a logistics expert who greatly reinforced President Roosevelt's and Secretary of War Stimson's growing stress on a huge build-up of American air strength. Out of this small group a tacit arrangement evolved as America entered World War II. Though the Air Corps was structurally a part of the Army, Marshall gave Arnold and the Air Corps equal status with the Army and Navy at the meetings of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. In return Arnold agreed that he and the Air Corps would desist from pushing for an independent air force until the war was over. The politic, lucid rationale for this marriage of expedience was well expressed in Arnold's and Eaker's second book, Winged Warfare, published in 1941 Many feel that eventually the defensive air components of the nation will be given a status coordinate and commensurate with that of the Army and Navy.... We shall be fortunate if our time for that reorganization comes in the relative time of peace or at the worst in the preparatory and not in the fighting stage.... The separate air force idea is not something to be rushed at pell mell or hell bent for leather. It must not be approached with the state of mind that everything now in existence, or which has been done, is wrong. The Army and Navy, the older services, deserve great credit for the tremendous strides they have made in the development of  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 148 --- The Praetioners 125 military and naval aviation.There are many essential services which the older and established bureaus, departments, or subdivisions of the Army and Navy now perform for the air arm. These include supply, ordnance—arms and ammunition—signal equipment, food, shelter, clothing, and the protection of air bases.... It may well be that eventually air forces of all countries will be separated from land and sea fo