vocates. Trenchard, an army major general before he was appointed the first Chief of the RAF, was not only convinced that national security required a centralized and independent air arm but he also saw a unique way to prove it to the British public and government—an opening unlike anything available to like minded fliers in the United States. As part of the settlement of World War I, Britain had accepted from the new League of Nations a supervisory "Mandate" for a clutch of new "nations" formed from the territory that had belonged to the Turks. These included Palestine, Transjordan, Mesopotamia, the Lebanon, the Hejaz, and the Yemen, all of which were squabbling with themselves and the outside world as they still do today. In 1920, for example, quelling rebellion in Mesopotamia cost the British 2,000 military casualties and £1,000,000. Trenchard proceeded to demonstrate that the Royal Air Force, even though shrunk from 96 squadrons in France at war's end to only 25-1 /2, could handle Britain' s problems in the Middle East effectively and at far less cost. He then did the same thing on the troubled Northwest Frontier of India. By 1924, thanks also to a revived role in Home air defense, efforts to disband the RAF had disappeared, and Trenchard was secure in the reputation he carried ever after as its "Founder."12 Trenchard believed best way to handle the air arm in World War I was to "...unify all aviation under one commander, to place the minimum number of airplanes necessary for the use of ground troops in action with each army, and to concentrate the bulk of bombardment and pursuit so that he could 'hurl a mass of aviation at any one locality needing attack.' "13 This concept would re-emerge elsewhere. Although "the two were vastly different in personality and deportment," the influence of Trenchard's thinking was apparent in Mitchell's actions to reserve as much as possible of the air power available to the Americans in a single strike force for the offensive. Mi