ng if the first axiom had been qualified along the following lines: 1. Air power can be employed decisively in war when the enemy's essential means for waging war are vulnerable to attack from the air. That phrasing leaves room for doubt about the decisiveness of air power depending upon the nature of the enemy's means for war and their vulnerability to attack from the air. Since, at the time air power theory first emerged, most perceived of war in terms of World War I, the  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 234 --- Crash Analysis 211 essential means were seen as a nation's industry and transport. That would have focused the debate precisely where it should have been—on the vulnerability of war industry and transport to air attack rather than the relevance of armies and navies. In their eagerness to make their case, the air power theorists probably overstated their claim to the decisiveness of air power; to have been equivocal on that point might have implied uncertainty about their cause. Qualifying the claim could have cost them some of the supporters they needed in advancing the cause of military aviation; but over the long run, they paid a price by sowing the seeds of the perennial debates between the American military services The other two axioms seem appropriate to the theory. Under circum­ stances where air power can be decisive, that achievement will be predicated upon achieving command of the air; and both decisive use and command of the air will depend upon central and independent control of air power.4 Air Power as a Mission When air power theory was converted into a mission and used as the basis for forging and employing air power, it is the second axiom, in retrospect, that seems flawed. Those who forged and initially employed air power in the late 1930s and early 1940s thought command of the air could be achieved by self-defended bombers. These would be the battleships of the sky. But others, like Claire Lee Chennault, foresaw a battle for command