world.. .if you loved to fly. The old air force was being scrapped, and a new air force was being born right on our doorstep. Prop planes were obsolete, and the thousands of'B-29s and Mustangs that had won World War II were being cut up for scrap, replaced by an air fleet of jet and rocket-propelled supersonic fighters and bombers.1 The Golden Age of Air Power With an independent Air Force and the American public's widespread acceptance of deterrence through air power as the basis for national security in the Cold War, air power theory could finally be translated into adequate forces in being. The triumph of the concept was manifested in the forging of SAC under General Curtis LeMay (1948-1957). Because of the temporary conjunction of world politics, technology, and LeMay as one of air power's most able operators, air power theory emerged in its ultimate form—a monument to Armageddon—composed from weapons of mind-boggling destructiveness, carried by giant, globe-girdling air­ planes, crewed and supported by an elite cadre of airmen, with chillingly explicit purpose by deterrence theory. The exploitation of air power theory had reached its zenith, its institutional ends, and would subside thereafter. Henceforth, operations and efficiency, not theory would dominate; and if theory were needed, it would be supplied by deterrence theory. LeMay was a strong operational leader, devoted to professionalism. He was probably less driven by air power theory than he was the mission he 145  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 169 --- 146 The Icarus Syndrome had been given based on his track record as an operator.2 Whether or not the mission (massive retaliation or assured destruction) conformed to air power theory was probably less important to LeMay than the clarity of the mission and his freedom to build a professional force to fulfill it. At the same time, the leadership of the Air Force was steadily shifting to the more numerous aviators who were not so much air power theor