as fear that atomic weapons, because of their vastly  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 158 --- Breaking Free 135 greater efficiency than conventional bombs, would jeopardize USAF postwar plans for retaining a huge bomber force.6 The writings of the time, particularly the report of the Spaatz Board (discussed below), indicate more subtle considerations. There was great uncertainty about how many of these new bombs would be available and when and how they should be used. If anything, LeMay seems to have been very positive about the importance of the atomic bomb and expansive about Air Force preparations for its assimilation and use: On 30 August [1945], Maj. Gen. Curtis E. LeMay, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army Strategic Air Forces in the Pacific (USASTAF) and former commander of the XX and XXI Bomber Commands in the 20th Air Force, submitted a detailed and far-sighted plan for the AAF's postwar atomic program to Lt. Gen. Ira C. Eaker, the AAF's Deputy Commanding General. He stressed three things in his message: (1) that the efficacy of the bomb was clearly established; (2) that it was essential to U.S. national security to retain leadership in atomic energy; and (3) that the bomb was primarily an air weapon, which meant the AAF had to cooperate fully to insure U.S. leadership. To maintain its lead in atomic weapons, LeMay recommended top postwar priority for an expanded AAF program using the 509th Bomb Group as its nucleus. Among the most pressing requirements was "A comprehensive plan for an atomic bombardment organization, probably a wing.. .capable of immediate independent operation in any part of the world." LeMay cautioned against "post-war planning for this project on too small a scale." 7 A fortnight later, only six weeks after the dropping of the atomic bombs on Japan, Eaker had commissioned the postwar planning the Air Force needed to adapt itself to a revolution in destructive power. On 14 September [1945], Ira Eaker formally designated Spaatz, Vandenb