odel that stimulates them and implies the possible answers. The first premise of the prevailing model is key; if it fails, so easily may the rest. Is it possible that the most powerful forces now shaping the world are no longer those in the hands of national governments? The evidence for an affirmative answer is mounting. The following premises could be the basis for a different model and perception that may better describe the future of the world, if not the present: 1. The most powerful force shaping the world is the rapid diffusion of power into the hands of individuals, factions, corporations, and other non-state actors who are freely and independently associating themselves with shared causes, not necessarily or even mostly identified with nationalism. 2. That more diffuse power is manifested in a variety of forms—political, economic, and destructive—which are increasingly capable of effective challenges to those of the nation-states. 3. The source of that power is to be found mostly in information—its communication, processing, management, dissemination, access, and utilization—instead of the traditional sources such as military forces, territory, industrial production, or natural resources. 4. Traditional human hierarchies of all kinds—in governments, business, and even in families, wherever they have been erected upon the limitation and control of information—are increasingly being eroded, bypassed, or ignored when they do not serve the causes of those who are subordinated to them. The evidence for these premises is found not so much in the past 250 years as in the present and over the past 40 and 4000 years. The past 4000 years is a story of the diffusion of power to individuals at the expense of elites through a series of revolutionary human developments, the latest of which is an information revolution, begun in the past 40 years. Bronowski observed that all revolutionary forms of power—the horse, writing, gunpowder, and nuclear energy—initially vest with