Noonan in What I Saw at the Revolution, 37.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 62 --- PART II CREATION  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 64 --- 4 The Precursors From time immemorial man has longed to soar into the sky, but in the distant days.. .it seemed impossible that this bold dream would ever come true. And yet, mythology tells us that there was a man who not only believed in human flight but actually achieved it. His name was Dcedalus, and with him flew Icarus, his son.' Air power theory was not the obvious consequence of manned flight or military aviation. It did not spring into the minds of all those who flew. It was not immediately apparent to most military minds that the airplane would revolutionize warfare, any more than it was apparent that the new petrol engines would soon transform war into a clash of machines on land and in the sea and air. Air power theory did not emerge completely and recognizably as such until two decades after the Wright brother's first flight. And during those two decades the roots of air power theory were formed—in the minds of the men who would become its prophets and in the experiences of the publics and politicians who would come to support it. To understand both the form and significance of air power theory, we need to appreciate the precursors of the theory in people and their experiences. Although air power was a universal theory, it was not universal in its origins; it did not take hold everywhere, even among nations at the leading edge of military aviation. The theory has its deepest roots in Italy, Britain, and America. Only the latter two would transform the theory into practice. And it would take on two distinctive forms in British and American hands because of their different experiences. Yet, 41  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 65 --- 42 The Icarus Syndrome by the end of World War II, those two forms would merge into one that would dominate the security structure of the Cold War. This chapter is the f