erstitions. —Thomas Henry Huxley  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 12 --- Foreword The legend of Icarus aside, our experience with manned flight is brief. As this is written, some still living were present at the Earth's surface when the Wright Brothers first managed to lift free from it. An indepen­ dent U.S. Air Force has existed for only half this brief period. Neverthe­ less, the impact of airpower has been so emphatic that today few military professionals would like to contemplate active operations undertaken without its benefits. Thus, no recent trend has had more important military consequences than the increasing importance of air and space power. The rise of air and space power has taken place against the background of international violence that has characterized the 20th century. As we approach the end of this century, we see, in retrospect, regional conflicts too numerous to list and three great world wars. We do not yet fully understand the implications of Western victory in the last of these great wars, which we call the Cold War. As a consequence, we have no clear view of what the nation will ask its armed forces to do in the years ahead. One thing does seem clear: the Air Force must prepare to meet whatever security challenges arise while at the same time undergoing a rapid drawdown in every dimension of resource availability. This is the central problem facing the contemporary Air Force. Many serving airmen are convinced that we can best prepare for an uncertain future by attending to institutional fundamentals—to our sense of identity and purpose. These can provide a steady frame of reference as we work our way through an otherwise bewildering set of changes. Enter Carl Builder. Mr. Builder has been thinking about institutional fundamentals for some years. In this latest effort, he traces the ideas and fortunes of airpower's most influential advocates—Billy Mitchell, Hap Arnold, and others who shaped the growth and employment of our Air Force.