than it is to ask a human being to be committed to higher purposes. Although we accept that institutions, like human beings, should have a great interest in their survival and fortunes, that may not be all that we ask of either. The profession of arms asks that an individual be dedicated to the military mission assigned, even, if necessary, unto life itself. Likewise, military services—as implied by the words—are expected to dedicate themselves to their assigned military missions above and before their own survival and fortunes. If a military service is not committed first and foremost to the missions assigned by the nation it serves, then it has become a contradiction in terms. 4. Boyd and Westenhoff, "Air Power Thinking," 5, (emphasis in the original). 5. See Chapter 10 for some of the conflicting views. 6. General McConnell (1908-1986) was Air Force Chief of Staff from 1965 to 1969, during the expansion of the American involvement in the Vietnam War. 7. According to a subsequent chief of staff, Gen. Merrill A. McPeak, in an address, Does the Air Force Have a Mission? at Maxwell AFB, Alabama, 19 June 1992. 8. As reported in a correction in Aerospace Daily, October 23, 1991, 129B. Two days earlier, in the same publication (p. 110), General McPeak had been reported as setting ...reporters straight about his widely-reported desire to put fighter pilots in all key positions in the Air Force. The service's purpose, he says, is to generate combat capability that protects the country, and not necessarily to "provide equal career opportunities" for those who fly heavies, or, heaven forbid, don't wear wings at all. The corrected remarks read as follows: The Air Force does not exist for any other purpose except to defend the United States. It doesn't exist to provide equitable career tracks for everybody in the Air Force. That's not our mission. 9. USAF White Paper, The Air Force and U.S. National Security: Global Reach—Global Power, Office of the Secretary of the Air Force