70s and 1980s, the principal rationale for carrier aviation returned to support of naval operations—protecting the fleet and striking naval targets. 4. The term, "high-performing system," and its association with distinct senses of identity and purpose are derived from the work of Peter B. Vaill, as reported in "The Purposing of High- Performing Systems," Organizational Dynamics (Autumn 1982): 23-39. 5. The term, "mission," here means the role of an aircraft, in contrast with the purpose of air power, as defined earlier in Chapter 18. 6. Again, the term, "mission," here means the role of military aviation, not the purpose of air power. 7. This interservice battle may be quieted, not by Air Force divestiture of means, but by the declining interests of both services in strategic missiles associated with the end of the Cold War and by the creation of a new joint command United States Strategy Command, (USSTRATCOM).  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 255 --- 232 The Icarus Syndrome 8. Equally revealing, this Air Force radar officer also asked me not to use his name when I suggested crediting him with the observation; such credit would not, he thought, be helpful to him in his Air Force career. 9. Tactical aviation played a dominant role in the application of air power in the Southwestern Pacific under General Kenney and in Europe, after the Normandy invasion. Strategic bombardment dominated the European theater before the invasion and the Pacific theater in the final attacks on Japan. 10. Missiles may become increasingly attractive to countries which are less endowed with the wealth and infrastructures required to maintain air forces. Missiles may also, in the wake of Operation Desert Storm, be perceived as less vulnerable to counterattacks than other forms of military force. 11. This could come about through a variety of developments in the continuous contest between offense and defense over command of the air. The proliferation of "smart" surface-based air defense