enlist as its converts or benefactors. Such a vision draws suitable personnel to the organization, and inspires them to excellence after they have joined the organization. In addition, a suitably inspirational  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 300 --- From Mission to Vision 277 organizational vision presents a positive image to those outside the organization (such as...members of a congressional subcommittee) who determine what external resources (such as...budgetary appropriations) the organization will have available.... Second, an organizational vision must be relevant and realistic with respect to the challenges and opportunities that confront the organization. A vision that does not help to solve the problems members of an organization face each day will be discarded as sloganeering. A vision that clearly cannot be fulfilled or, if fulfilled, cannot contribute in the prevailing circumstances, will also ultimately fail to serve the organization.... Selecting a vision that is appropriate to (or slightly ahead of) its time.. .is one of the hallmarks of great leadership. Third, a vision must be clear and distinctive in its discrimination of the unique identity and purpose of the organization. If the sense of identity and purpose provided by an organizational vision does not set the organization apart from others—from its competitors and even from its companions—then there is no reference frame for the organization's decisions. Every blur of distinction in identity and purpose invites mimicry and, hence, a loss of the opportunity for leadership. Fourth, a vision must be pervasive and stable, widely shared and understood inside (and, ideally, even outside) the organization. If the vision is not known or understood, it cannot be the basis for decisions and actions. An inspiring and relevant vision that exists only in the mind of the organization's leader may be useful under ideal conditions; but the power of an organizational vision lies in its ability to serve t