rojects, obsolete techniques and policies, overlapping in the armed services' operations and organizations must go by the boards. There is no place for two air forces today any more than there is for two ground forces or two navies. Let us get smart, and, while we have a few years in  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 196 --- New Dimensions 173 which to reorganize, do it right. Let us give the people of the United States the best, the most efficient, the most modernly equipped armed forces possible, using as determining factors, our foreign policy, and the capabilities and limitations of our probable enemies.1* Although an operator more than a theorist or visionary, LeMay appears to have been much more comfortable with the prospects of guided missiles than his contemporaries. In a memo dated 20 September 1946 to General Spaatz, General LeMay concluded with several observations about the importance of missile and rocket development to the long-term future of what would soon be the independent Air Force. The present situation with regard to guided missiles in Europe, with Russia, England and France all hiring German engineers and pressing development energetically, with the Russian reopening of Peenemunde and Nordhausen, with Russian missiles seen in Sweden, makes it absolutely imperative that the U.S. press guided missiles development with maximum energy. The long-range future of the AAF lies in the field of guided missiles. Atomic propulsion may not be usable in manned aircraft in the near future, nor can accurate placement of atomic warheads be done without sacrifice of the crews. In acceleration, temperature, endurance, multiplicity of functions, courage, and many other pilot requirements, we are reaching human limits. Machines have greater endurance, will stand more severe ambient conditions, will perform more functions accurately, will dive into targets without hesitation. The AAF must go to guided missiles for the initial heavy casualty phases of future war