icance in the development of the natural sciences and some religions can not be doubted. The validity of air power theory is not the issue examined here; it is how a theory of air power evolved and was used to build and sustain a military institution. A theory of air power in some form may well have been inevitable, but it could have taken a different form; and for the Germans, with different experiences from World War I, it did. The Germans saw air power as a critical adjunct to land warfare, with local control of the air as a necessary  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 54 --- The Icarus Syndrome 31 means for conducting land operations. It was the British and Americans who found the concept of victory through independent and strategic employment of air power so compelling. And the development of aircraft in those three countries during the period between the two world wars reflected these differences. The air power theory was, like most successful ideas, appealing to both its sellers and buyers. Indeed, most means are sold on the basis of their claimed ends, even though the seller's vested interests are often mostly in the means. We even sell ourselves on things, such as a new car, on the basis of ends, such as saving the money "wasted" on repair bills for the old car. If one wants to hear the best arguments couched in terms of ends, go first to those with the greatest vested interest in the means; they are the lightning rods for the articulation of ends served by their means. For the most part, the sellers of the air power theory were aviators, who were, understandably, always more interested in means (the airplane) than the ends (war). They thought the leverages claimed for air power— speed and vantage point—were uniquely embodied in the airplane; if one accepted the theory and its ends, the airplane was the only means for fulfillment of its ends. Therefore, they could afford to sell the theory in the terms of its serious ends rather than its more joyous mea