their control are important measures of future potentials. For at least two centuries, this model has probably been a reasonably reliable guide to the future of the West, if not always for the rest of the world which it has dominated politically. It urges great concern about the qualities of national leaderships, about the ideologies they profess and which may guide their policies, and about the economic and military powers at their disposal. Where those concerns point toward the possibil­ ity of good or bad developments, the model urges further concerns about upsetting or restoring regional balances of power. That model is power­ fully evident in such current questions as these: • Will a reunified Germany represent an economic giant capable of once again dominating Europe, perhaps recreating the conditions leading to two world wars? • Will the restoration of the Russian economy before the dismantling of its military power regenerate the threat it posed during the Cold War? • Will the breakup of the Soviet empire result in the balkanization of Europe, thereby recreating the conditions that spawned the First World War? Note that all of these question are a glance over the shoulder—all are concerns rooted in the history of the 20th century. More important, all of these questions contain within them the implicit, "if this, then that" relationship of a model of how the world works, might work, or is reasonably expected to work. None question the model or its premises.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 261 --- 238 The Icarus Syndrome They pose a world in the hands of statesmen, exemplified by Metternich and Kissinger and haunted by 1948 or 1939 or 1914 or 1870. Although the questions, themselves, cannot be faulted, their pertinency lies not in recent events but in the model that stimulates them and implies the possible answers. The first premise of the prevailing model is key; if it fails, so easily may the rest. Is it possible that the most powerful forces now shap