that possibility, even as the evidence grew during the 1940s and 1950s. If they had accepted the possibility, before the event, they might have reshaped the institution, the theory, and their affections in several directions. The aviators might have: • narrowed the ends of the theory and their institution to those which would remain dominated by the airplane as the principal means; • transferred their affections to the ends of the theory and thereby embraced all new means as they emerged; • shared the power in the institution with those pursuing other means, thereby keeping the institution's devotion to ends even as they retained their own devotion to narrower means; or • created some amalgam of the above three in the form of compatible changes in the institution, the theory, and their affections. Substantiating this thesis of what happened to the Air Force is the principal objective of this analysis. Finding the best way out of the problem, if it has been properly identified, is definitely not a burden of the analysis, although I have taken the opportunity to offer the best solution I can find. After developing and documenting the thesis, I have focused on mostly the logic and the parameters—the ingredients and the necessary conditions—for a satisfactory solution, even if those parame-  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 60 --- The Icarus Syndrome 37 ters are conflicting or contradictory (as I suspect they may be). The one (if anyone) who solves this problem will undoubtedly have to untie some Gordian knots, pick the winners and losers, and decide who to throw to the wolves. Those choices, of course, are not mine to make. Notes 1. The New Encyclopedia Britannica, Micropedia, vol. 3, 15th ed. (Chicago: Encyclopedia Britannica Co., 1976), 342. 2. As reported by Peggy Noonan in What I Saw at the Revolution, 37.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 62 --- PART II CREATION  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 64 --- 4 The Precursors From time immemorial man has l