to the ends of war. More importantly, only that part offered the prospect of independence—in operations and as an institution. The theory implied an independent air force, but that was easier said than designed or executed. Even Mitchell expressed his qualms: Air forces are more difficult to organize and put on a sound footing than either an army or navy, because in this newest arm we have no traditions upon which to build except those developed during the war.21 The airmen were not alone in their quest for independence. They had developed important allies, probably because their theory of air power spoke to the interests of these allies. Many, but not all, Army airmen...wanted aviation free from army control, believing that only when divorced from ground forces and given an independent mission would aviation realize its full war making potential. Then, they held, air power would be decisive in warfare. Army commanders clung to their control over aviation, regarding the air arm as just one of several arms comprising a single force to work under a single head toward a single objective. Hence, in the 1920s the War Department vigorously defended the status quo against attacks from airmen and their allies in Congress and among the general public.22 But the War Department, despite its vigorous defense of the status quo, would end up yielding some crucial ground to the airmen: Despite the strenuous efforts of aviation enthusiasts to separate aviation from the Army and War Department, the General Staff had retained control over the Air Service during the first half of the 1920s. Having lost part of that power to Assistant Secretary of War for Air Davison in 1926, the General Staff hoped to get it back when he left office. Division chiefs and other General Staff members commonly favored creation of a [centrally controlled] GHQ Air Force. First, however, they wanted to assess the effect it might have. They felt that once  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 87 --- 64 The I