the Air Force than in the other services; and in these tough times, the Air Force could be severely hurt. Although I have not conducted anything near 100 interviews with Air Force officers on this subject, I have encountered extreme views and the same clearing of the coffee tables. From my prior experience with views about air pollution, I am convinced that the presentation of additional evidence or argumentation will not change those views. Those views come from deeply held perspectives of the world, how the world works, and values much more than they do from objective evidence. Although that admission may sound unscientific, such contradictions are the norm when science and policy meet. Therefore, the hypothesis developed in this analysis proceeds not from generally accepted facts but rather from the following three premises of faith: 1. That the Air Force may, indeed, be facing some serious institutional problems; 2. That some of these problems appear to be unique to the Air Force among the American military services; and 3. That these unique problems deserve a better understanding so that we have a basis for debating or undertaking proposed actions.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 44 --- Is There a Problem? 21 I do not think these three premises can be proven to the satisfaction of those who are skeptical of them. The Icarus Syndrome is simply not their coffee table. Nevertheless, I have learned that opposing views must be recognized and respected. If those who do not accept the premises of The Icarus Syndrome are even to entertain—let alone consider—the ideas and arguments of this analysis, they must first be recognized and their views given some standing. Here are some alternative interpretations of the evidence that they might have laid out on their coffee tables: • If there was a problem of confidence, it was dissolved by the experience of Operation Desert Storm. Whatever the questions about the decisiveness of air power before, whatever the doubts of