veloping as well as the strict attention to "Economy in Government" permitted. Recently revived trials indicated that the Bug was now ready for operational use. Its flight-tested range, in December, 1941, was better than 200 miles, both this and its accuracy apparently being capable of rapid improvement. It might be necessary to change the original concept. It was now controlled by radio. We could employ one of the many other modern scientific devices that would insure it a direct-reckoning course to its objective. The pilotless Bug was, in any case, already a modern military weapon in being. It would cost, per unit, between $800 and $ 1000 as compared to $200,000 for a medium, or $400,000 for a single heavy bomber, and could be produced quickly in large numbers.8 The comparative analysis that Arnold then presented is remarkable—not for its pertinence, but for its forthright consideration of possibilities so threatening to the very heart of the institutional Air Force: For the price of one B-17 with a bomb load of 6000 pounds, we could send 500 of these little Bugs over enemy territory, each carrying about 800 pounds of explosive. Much more important than any monetary factor was the possible saving in human life. It has been mentioned that some time before this we had come to the decision that the loss rate for which we must be prepared in an all- out air war would probably be around 25 percent of our combat planes and combat personnel per month. C. F. Kettering, of General Motors, the real father of the Bug, not only had an intimate knowledge of its development from the start, but in the intervening years had worked on devices to perfect it. Elmer Sperry, who had made the first controls for the full-size pilotless plane, was dead, but his Sperry Gyroscope Company was still in full stride. Orville Wright, and some of the men in the Aeolian Company who had pioneered with us in the earlier experiments, were  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 183 --- 160 The Icarus