to deny themselves the benefits of the prospering societies they see all around them. Now the clock is ticking for them; probably none will continue as closed societies when their present leaderships die off. Gorbachev chose to open his society and to risk his control over it. Glasnost was the strategic decision, not perestroika. Although he probably would not have put it this way, his choice was either to open the society and hope to secure the benefits of the information revolution or to close it and ensure its continuing backwardness relative to the open societies and the rest of the developed world community. Gorbachev's successors cannot escape the dilemma; they can only ratify or repudiate the choice. Perestroika was merely the undertaker that attempted, too late, to deal with the dead body of the hierarchy of elites that had been created in, and sustained by, a closed society. The suddenness of the collapse of communist regimes must be explained by whatever model one subscribes to for world events. That the Eastern European satellites and captive republics of the Soviet Union were restive was certainly no surprise. If they had progressively gained greater political freedom from Moscow over the next decade or so, few would have expressed astonishment. But for all of these nations to come in from the cold, separately, sequentially, in the space of a few years, implies some common mechanism; and that mechanism was the sharing of abundant information. The publics throughout Eastern and Western Europe were acting on the basis of information that was increasingly available through non-governmental sources—through television, tele­ phone circuits, facsimile and copying machines—as part of the global network of commercial (not state) electronic signals. Remarkably, national governments and organized political bodies on both sides of the Iron Curtain acted to moderate rather than amplify the forces engendered by the information revolution. With few exceptions, nationa