o the programming and budgeting with their own visions. This lack of a comprehensive strategic vision is the proximate or contributing cause in a variety of current Air Force difficulties. Roles, Missions and Attitudes From an Air Force general: The Air Force appears willing to compromise on principles in order to gain its objectives with respect to systems or procedures. This is in sharp contrast to the Navy, which seems never to compromise because of its certainty of the correctness of Navy interests. From an Army colonel on the joint staff: The other services are more predictable because they act in accordance with well-articulated concepts, while the Air Force usually acts to protect some current interest. The Navy expects to win, while the Air Force is satisfied with being clever. Those two anecdotes are only pertinent as an introduction to discussing why the Air Force is increasingly on the defensive with respect to roles and missions. Army systems are certainly encroaching on the traditional missions of the air weapon; but more troublesome is the Air Force conceding initiative and control over attack missions to an Army commander, sometimes even to a junior officer on the ground. A substantial part of the Air Force vision is being tied to what a surface commander thinks air power can and should do.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 30 --- A View of the Air Force Today 7 This is the climate that stimulates those outside the Air Force to call for transferring the close air support mission to the Army. This is also a climate that permits even Air Force officers to be confused about the nature of air power and to accept the strategic claims of the other services. All this is exemplified by the initiatives in Europe to use air power to support the close- in battle simply because the Army has devoted too much of its resources to the deep battle. The Air Force has conceded the intellectual high ground to the Army with its AirLand Battle concept. While air power