ing to Alfred Hurley, the influence of Trenchard on America's first prophet of air power, Billy Mitchell, began during the war: The first meeting between Trenchard and Mitchell set the tone for their future relationship. Trenchard, famous for his brusqueness, quickly challenged Mitchell' s demands on his time. But Mitchell's reply that Trenchard could well afford to ignore RFC business for a little while because he had organized it so well broke down Trenchard's reserve.... Yet it was Trenchard himself who talked to Mitchell about the role of the air weapon of the present and of the future.12 Trenchard must not be included in the "considerable section of British military opinion" whom Mitchell found interested "in a radical air strategy." Only the radicals argued that a strategic bombardment campaign against Germany would end the war more quickly than a continued stress on ground operations. Among these radicals were some of the younger airmen around Trenchard who were trying to interest him in such a viewpoint. At about this time in London, two of the leaders of British aviation, Gen. David Henderson and Sir Sefton Brancker, sought such a policy. The clearest exponent of it, however, was General Jan Christiaan Smuts, the soldier-politician whose report to the British government on strategic bombardment on August 17,1917, was significant in the formation both of the Royal Air Force and of the nucleus of a strategic bombing effort the following spring.13 The fingerprints of Churchill and the Royal Navy are evident in some of the technical and operational groundwork for the offensive use of air power and for Mitchell's subsequent interest, after the war, in demon­ strating the use of large bombs against naval targets: As for Mitchell, his education continued...with a visit to the Royal Naval Air Service Unit at Dunkerque. Its commander was Wing Captain C. L. Lambe....  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 69 --- 46 The Icarus Syndrome Lambe and his airmen were primar