ational security role. Cultural Clues There are obvious cultural differences between the services. They can be overdrawn, but these differences can now be felt and deserve our attention. The touchstones for the Army are the art of war and the profession of arms. The Army's separate branches are unified in their concepts and doctrine.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 29 --- 6 The Icarus Syndrome The Navy is oriented with its institution and its traditions which have served it well during challenges to its relevancy. This Navy culture has helped them to formulate the Maritime Strategy to provide integration, coherence, and direction within the Navy. The Air Force, by contrast, has identified itself with the air weapon, and rooted itself in a commitment to technological superiority. The dark side of this commitment is that it becomes transformed into an end in itself when aircraft or systems, rather than missions, become the primary focus. Identity in the Air Force has become associated with a specific airplane rather than the institution or military art, with a resulting weaker sense of community than the other services. The Air Force has no integrating vision like the Maritime Strategy or AirLand Battle. The earlier air power theories have been relegated to mythology.7 While flawed and limited in the light of today's experience, those theories were, nevertheless, powerful integrating blueprints in their time. The absence of an integrating vision unleashes bad tendencies: weak ties to the institution, loyalties given to airframes or commands, and a focus on systems before missions. The Air Force is fragmented in both how it plans and how it appears to outsiders. Without a unifying theme, there is no basis for tough decisions, so they are pushed off onto others who do the programming and budgeting with their own visions. This lack of a comprehensive strategic vision is the proximate or contributing cause in a variety of current Air Force difficulties. Roles, Miss