eavy bombers flying in formation could penetrate enemy defenses during daylight hours in order to bomb with precision, and do so at an acceptable cost. That error in judgment extracted an extremely high price in bomber losses during the early months of U.S. participation in World War II.13 It wasn't the lack of counter-evidence; to acknowledge such evidence was to undermine what the airmen had worked to achieve in developing the bomber which would provide their ticket to autonomy. Air forces exposed to combat in the 1930s learned, as World War II showed more fully, that tactical aviation in support of surface forces "could often destroy the forces in the field before strategic bombers could have a paralyzing effect." But no doctrine except strategic air power satisfied the drive to achieve an independent air force that would bring personal status, power, and probably most important, professional respectability.14 With respect to the thesis of this analysis, the important point is not whether air power theory was right or wrong, but that the power of the  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 111 --- 88 The Icarus Syndrome theory dominated—even in the face of contrary evidence. The theory provided direction and energy to the airmen as they strove toward their cherished goal of autonomy. Above all, air had a mission distinct from ground support. Autonomy equaled legitimacy for the strategic bombing mission. It was long-range bombing of the enemy's vitals that set air apart.. ,.15 Camouflaging the Bombers To get the big bombers they needed for precision bombardment, the airmen were forced to camouflage their purposes in the hostile bureau­ cratic environment they faced in the Army and the Navy. General Frank M. Andrews, the Air Corps' greatest advocate for the big bombers, must have had to lie through gritted teeth when he was forced to argue that the big bombers were intended solely for coastal defense purposes: Despite the creation in March 1935 of general Headquarte