t to the Royal Naval Air Service Unit at Dunkerque. Its commander was Wing Captain C. L. Lambe....  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 69 --- 46 The Icarus Syndrome Lambe and his airmen were primarily engaged in raiding German shipping and attacking the occupied ports on the Belgian Coast. But they also had a more unusual mission—the bombardment of German inland targets. This objective bore the imprint of Winston Churchill's service as First Lord of the Admiralty. In 1915, Churchill had encouraged the naval airmen to attack the sheds housing the airships that were raiding England. A year later, this work temporarily expanded to include strikes on German targets from a base at Luxeuil, in eastern France. The naval airmen were experimenting with bombs and hoped for new aircraft with the range to carry them into Germany. One of their number, Commander Spenser Grey, showed Mitchell their most potent weapon, a 1,650- poundbomb....14 Even though the American involvement in World War I was relatively brief, it had a significant and persistent effect upon postwar develop­ ments in Army aviation: World War I established aviation as a combatant arm of the U.S. Army, integrated it with other arms under division, corps, and army commanders, and gave it the mission of supporting ground forces. Aerial operations during the war convinced Army commanders of the value of aviation, and of the need to retain it as an integral part of their forces. This carried over into the postwar organization of the Army Air Service.15 The British Experience If the British were not the only ones to come out of World War I appalled by the bloody carnage of trench warfare, they were the only ones to be traumatized by the effects of air power in the form of strategic bombardment: Practically every moonless period in 1915 had brought enemy raiders to London and the east coast. Militarily ineffective the zeppelins might be, but their nuisance value could not be ignored. About two hundred people were k