the cause of the crash. That single act or event may be surrounded by all sorts of contributing circumstances—such as bad weather or a radio malfunction—each of which by itself might not have caused the crash, but which compounded to narrow the margin of safety for dealing with some subsequent failure that resulted in the crash. It is the act or event, without which the crash would not have occurred, that is the object of the crash investigation. This distinction between the cause and other adverse circumstances attendant to a crash is illustrated by the crash of a United Airlines flight in 1969. Cause and Circumstance On January 18,1969, United Airlines flight 226, using a Boeing 727, departed at 6:07 pm from Los Angeles enroute to Denver. Shortly after takeoff, the flight reported they "had a fire warning on number one engine [which] we shut down [and] we'd like to come back." Thereafter, there were no further communications and the aircraft was observed to lose altitude in the departure area over the Pacific. The plane crashed into the sea about 11 miles off the coast with the loss of all 32 passengers and six crew members on board. The wreckage of the aircraft was found on the sea bottom at a depth of about 1,000 feet and was partially recovered. Both the flight data recorder and the cockpit voice recorder were recovered with readable tapes. The report of the crash investigation was published 14 months later.5 This is what the investigation revealed. Each of the three engines of the Boeing 727 airplane has an electrical generator to supply the aircraft electrical power. Only one of those generators is sufficient to supply all of the normal electrical needs for safe operation of the aircraft in flight. Because of this redundancy—more than was available from contemporary two-engine aircraft—it was an accept­ ably safe practice to operate 727 aircraft temporarily with one generator out until it could be repaired during routine maintenance. If a second generator wen