career tracks for everybody in the Air Force. That's not our mission. 9. USAF White Paper, The Air Force and U.S. National Security: Global Reach—Global Power, Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Washington, D.C., June 1990. 10. A closer examination of Global Reach—Global Power is undertaken in the next chapter, in connection with the Air Force vision. 11. McPeak, Does the Air Force Have a Mission? 3.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 292 --- 23 From Mission to Vision In general, an occupation pays enough to fill the job and to get it done—no more. An effective manager in an occupation prevails on workers to do what they are supposed to do; an effective leader in an institution motivates members to do more than they are supposed to do.1 Policies and strategies must be consistent with the vision articulated by leaders, and leaders must build commitment to that vision among members at all levels. [TJhe key question is whether that vision approximates the institutional or the occupational image of military culture.2 Is It Global Reach—Global Power? Just before Operation Desert Shield, the Air Force fired the opening gun in its own restructuring process—a process that continues as this is being written. The first shot was an Air Force white paper, The Air Force and U.S. National Security: Global Reach—Global Power, dated June 1990. Several things made the paper stand out against the background of its time: • It came from the highest levels of Air Force leadership3 as a statement of its perceptions and policies. • It served to fill, partially, the apparent vacuum identified in A View of the Air Force Today about the fate of the Air Force as an institution. • Its short title, Global Reach—Global Power, caught on as an apt motto or slogan for the Air Force and its role in the future. 269  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 293 --- 270 The Icarus Syndrome • It was decidedly up-beat at a time of fiscal bleakness and institutional uncertainty. At the very least,