se air power decisively in war, air power must be centrally and independently controlled. Air Power as a Theory As a theory, with 20-20 hindsight, it would seem that only the first of these three axioms was flawed. The claim of decisiveness should have been conditioned to certain kinds of war. The human disaster of World War I dominated perceptions of war at the time air power theory was first conceived. Indeed, air power theory took hold not just because of the advent of the airplane, but because it seemed to offer a way to avoid repeating the bloody disaster of stalemated trench warfare. It is under­ standable that the air power theorists were thinking about World War I when they said that air power could be employed decisively in war. But that claim was flawed in two respects. First, it didn't contemplate different kinds of warfare such as we have seen increasingly in the last half of the 20th century—irregular wars that are not dependent on highly organized industry and transportation for the provision of their means— where there is no heart of the enemy which can be struck decisively. Could the theorists have foreseen such wars and the limitations of air power? DeSeversky did: Total war from theair against an undeveloped country or region is well-nigh futile; it is one of the curious features of the most modern weapon that it is especially effective against the most modern types of civilization.3 Second, the unconditional claim to decisiveness in war was correctly perceived as a direct assault upon the relevance of other kinds of military forces, particularly the surface forces of the Army and Navy. In their efforts to argue the importance of air power, the theorists went so far as to challenge the need for armies and navies. They could have been far less threatening if the first axiom had been qualified along the following lines: 1. Air power can be employed decisively in war when the enemy's essential means for waging war are vulnerable to attack from the air