e simply because the Army has devoted too much of its resources to the deep battle. The Air Force has conceded the intellectual high ground to the Army with its AirLand Battle concept. While air power must support the ground commander, it is limited to no more than that if the Air Force has no integrating concept of its own. Even though the Air Force is the lead military agency for space, space systems will be competing for aircraft roles and missions, posing difficult tradeoffs in budgets and force structure. In the absence of a larger, integrating vision, space becomes a competing faction, devoted to space power, and without much loyalty to the Air Force as an institution. Even the strategic offensive mission, the well-spring of Air Force institutional independence, appears to be shifting to the Navy and its submarine-launched ballistic missiles. Many people can play in the deterrence game; however the Air Force needs to get its intellectual act together if it expects to play. An Unusual Conservatism Because of its focus on systems and commands rather than missions and strategies, the Air Force views innovation more as a threat than as an op­ portunity. Even new technology tends to be applied only to old ways of doing business. An example is the ground-launched cruise missile, which was never accepted into the Air Force mainstream. The use of remotely piloted vehicles is not imaginatively considered because it threatens manned penetrating aircraft. The Air Force response to the new initiatives of competitive strategies was to list its top 20 systems in its Program Objectives Memo (POM). In the absence of a broad framework, the Air Force has no compass to guide its position on long-range conventional cruise missiles. The Navy had no trouble finding its position because of the Maritime Strategy. The Air Force is more likely to be reacting rather than taking the initiative in roles and missions debates. The air power school of thought has not kept pace with events. F