ressed affections were for the means more than the political ends. The symbiosis ended when compet­ itive means for the same high ends appeared; and the aviators were forced to choose between means they had so long cherished and the ends expressed in the concept of air power. Fateful Choices The breakdown of the symbiosis was not deliberate or sudden but intuitive and incremental. Although subtle and gentle, the change was detectable, particularly by those who felt injured—the groundlings who were advocating alternatives to the airplane. Like a child who can sense the slightest favoritism of a parent toward a sibling, the groundlings quickly recognized that the aviators who ran the Air Force were really more faithful to airplanes than they were to the concept of air power which could now be served by alternative means. The missile and space advocates, like the aviators before them, had found new means to the old ends of air power, only to find that the institutional leadership was devoted to the old means more than the old ends. The new means would be accepted, but clearly not favored within the institution. The groundlings must have felt much like Andy Rooney did about CBS News when new management revealed greater devotion to the "bottom line" than to the traditions of a news organization: "I think a great many of us are feeling we are loyal to something that no longer exists, and it makes us feel foolish."2 Confronted with a significant challenge to the primacy of the airplane within the logic of their own theory of air power, the aviators running the Air Force did two things they did not really want to do:  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 58 --- The Icarus Syndrome 35 1. They accepted guided missiles and space satellites as alternative means to some of the broad and important ends of air power; and 2. They revealed—through their decisions more than their words—that their true affection was not for the theory of air power, but for the airplane. The consequen