hed against Britain until the fifth year of World War II, it is interesting to think how this little Bug might have changed the whole face of history if it had been allowed to develop without interruption during the years between the two wars. It was not perfect in 1918, of course, and as new gadgets and scientific improvements came out they continued to be incorporated into the Bug until the economy wave of the mid-twenties caused it to be shelved....7 Arnold's experience with the development of the Bug was not simply a passing fancy. The idea of an unmanned bomber for strategic bombard-  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 182 --- The Technology Janus 159 ment was revived as America entered World War II. But this time, it posed a doctrinal confrontation with what had become the central ideas of the American airmen: the big self-defended bomber and precision daylight bombardment. Arnold addressed the question fearlessly: As already stated, our whole fight for an Air Force had come to center more and more around bombardment, precision bombardment by daylight, all the things summed up by the great word "B-17." I now had to decide whether the four- engine bomber, and the whole bombardment program we had worked toward for so many years, should take second place in favor of something else. This time the problem was not pressed on us from outside the Air Force. We faced it ourselves, deliberately. The reason for it was not any lack of faith in our development of precision bombardment. There was the possibility that we now had something still more useful in our air power arsenal, when and if we entered the war against Germany. The "something" was nothing less than a highly improved version of that same little pilotless Bug which we had devised in 1917-18, and had kept on developing as well as the strict attention to "Economy in Government" permitted. Recently revived trials indicated that the Bug was now ready for operational use. Its flight-tested range, in December, 1