rd its mission and vision as an institution, some of the stark choices concern the means and ends of air power: 1. Should the ends of air power be narrow or broad? Should they be striking at the heart of the enemy, or all military uses of air power, or something in between? 2. Should the means of air power be narrow or broad? Should they be primarily manned aircraft, or all means of striking through the third dimension, or something in between? The extremes in these choices all imply costs to, or logical inconsisten­ cies with, today's Air Force. 219  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 243 --- 220 The Icarus Syndrome Nothing will more quickly go to the vital interests of the Air Force or influence its future than the choices about what is included or excluded from the Air Force's definition of air power. Exclusions risk divestiture of Air Force power, present or potential. Inclusions risk diffusion or dilution of the mission or vision and, hence, their utility in unifying the institution. If the ends of air power are defined narrowly to striking at the heart of the enemy, then much of the Air Force investment in air transport and close air support simply doesn't fit. The Air Force should give the close air support mission back to the Army, as some have suggested; and the Army should also be allowed to get back into the air transport business, at least for its own airlift needs. For both missions, the Army has persistently worried that its needs would come second to the Air Force's consistent interests in strategic bombardment and air superiority. If the ends of air power are defined broadly to include all military uses of air power, then the Air Force should logically have control of all Army, Navy, and Marine aviation which is presently focused on supporting their respective surface forces. Why should the Air Force provide close air support for the Army, but not the Navy or Marines? Why should the Army be permitted to use helicopters to support its ground forces