ty and effectiveness of the atomic bomb." Outfitted with the latest aircraft and equipment, manned by the most competent personnel, and organized around the 509th, this force would be maintained in the United States in a state of constant war readiness and would  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 162 --- Breaking Free 139 be capable of immediate deployment to augment conventional bombing operations. These concepts of constant war readiness of a strategic air force-in- being and rapid deployment for immediate operations were a distinct departure from previous War Department thinking. They did, however, reflect the Spaatz Board report and Air Staff thinking about atomic matters and were integral to AAF postwar planning. In so many ways these views challenged the War Department's traditional mobilization concepts and post-war planning based on.. .a year's warning of war. Deterrence of aggression and immediate retaliation were very clearly coalescing in the Air Force's strategic thinking about the need for a strategic atomic air force in a constant state of war readiness.15 The establishment of that nuclear deterrent force as an independent command separate from the theater commander came only a year later. .. .Arnold had created 20th Air Force in 1944 with himself as the JCS executive agent and Commanding General to make sure strategic air operations were conducted in conformity with air strategy rather than theater strategy and requirements. The AAF soon adopted the position, which became national defense policy in December 1946 (JCS 1259/27, 12 December 1946), that the "air-atomic" strategic air force should only come under the orders of the JCS because of the overriding importance of its strategic mission to national security.16 Hence, the outlines of the Strategic Air Command emerged barely more than a year after World War II, even before the Air Force had achieved its impending independence from the Army. Air power theory in America had begun its 15-year trans