ese arguments were only facets of the air power theory, dressed in the forceful, sometimes lurid rhetoric of the day. What, then, was the essence of the theory in today's language? Air power theory proposed that military aviation had opened up a completely new and dominant dimension of warfare—not just an adjunct to surface warfare—which could produce quick and decisive results in war if exploited through offensive strikes directly at the critical sources of enemy power; but to do those things, military aviation must first be used to control the air and be centrally and independently controlled. That was classical theory—a supposition or conjecture about the relationships between things—in the form, "if this, then that." The Stirrings of Independence Even before the arguments for institutional independence would become so evident and divisive, military aviators saw military aviation taking on two important, but different forms or missions.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 86 --- The Theory 63 "Air service" is that part of aviation which works directly with and in conjunction with ground troops, such as observation aviation which regulates artillery fire, conducts Infantry liaison missions, and such other work as is directly connected with ground troops—in other words "service," i.e., "air service." "Air Force" is that part of aviation capable of independent action without regard to ground operation, such as bombardment, pursuit, and attack. These branches of aviation strike independently at enemy centers such as cities, factories, railroad yards, docks, etc., without regard to location or operation of ground troops. In other words it is a "force" within itself; i.e., "air force."20 The theory said that the second part of military aviation was the more significant to the ends of war. More importantly, only that part offered the prospect of independence—in operations and as an institution. The theory implied an independent air force, but that was easier said tha