g with the Sperry Company, and with Ket's Delco firm, we had developed—not merely experimented with, but successfully tested—two pilotless planes. One was a full-sized airplane, but equipped with complete gyroscope controls, built at Sperry's Long Island plant. Further tests in the spring of 1918 showed that this flying bomb was sufficiently accurate to reach a point within a hundred yards of its target after a forty-mile run, but the necessary precision devices, man hours to be expended, and so on, made it too expensive to pursue in terms of quantity production. Under Ket's direction, we then devised a pilotless airplane—or bomb—which we called the Bug. It was a  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 181 --- 158 The Icarus Syndrome complete little airplane built of papier-mache and reinforced with wooden members, its smooth cardboard wing surfaces spreading less than twelve feet. Its fuselage held 300 pounds of explosives, and it weighed, unloaded, 300 pounds itself. It took off from a small four-wheeled carriage which rolled down a portable track, its own little two-cycle, 40 h.p. engine, built by Henry Ford, meeting the requirements for both pressure and vacuum necessary to operate the automatic controls. The actuating force for the controls was secured from bellows removed from player pianos. They rotated cranks, which in turn operated the elevators [and] the rudder. The direction of the flight was insured by a small gyro, elevation from a small supersensitive aneroid barometer, so sensitive that moving it from the top of the desk to the floor operated the controls. This kept the Bug at its proper altitude. At first we relied only on the dihedral of the wings for lateral stability, but later, more positive directional controls had to be installed with orthodox ailerons. Including the $50 gasoline engine built by Ford, the entire device cost about $400. To launch the Bug, tracks were pointed toward the objective. The distance to the target, and wind direction and