esigned to strike at the heart of the enemy through the third dimension. These would include the SLBM force at a minimum, since its only purpose is to strike at the heart of the enemy through the third dimension. The sea-based cruise missiles and carrier-based attack aircraft are problematical since they can be rationalized for striking naval targets in support of naval operations.3 It isn't obvious whether there is any satisfactory ground in theory or in logic for the Air Force to constitute itself as it has since gaining institutional independence. It has accumulated ends beyond air power theory from its World War II experiences as the Army Air Forces. It has accumulated means beyond those originally conceived by the military aviators because of technological developments and competitions with its sister services over roles, missions, and budgets. Today's Air Force appears to interpret the ends of air power broadly, but is equivocal about the means. It shows a strong predilection toward manned aircraft and treats other means (missiles and space) as if they were somehow adjuncts to manned aircraft. While fiercely competing with its sister services over the possession of all its means, it doesn't even attempt to enforce all of its broad claims to ends. The amalgamation which constitutes the current Air Force lacks that unique sense of identity and shared sense of purpose which are needed to make it a high-performing system.4 The Air Force finds itself oriented on a diversity of means and ends by history rather than logic; it is the manager of the nation's military air transport and space assets by historical events rather than by design. The pragmatic questions now are these: • Can an effective vision—a unique sense of identity and shared sense of purpose—be developed in the current amalgam of the Air Force? • If the Air Force must change or be changed to arrive at an effective vision, which changes would be least costly to the institution?  File: --- builder_icarus