d not require fighter escort, and for the development of commercial air transport aviation as an adjunct to military aviation proved useful [later] as a corroboration of the Air Corps ideas.5 This corroboration was not coincidence but rather was evidence that "the military aviators of the world spoke the same language."6 Curiously, the Italian connection and Douhet's role in the develop­ ment of air power theory were not immediately acknowledged by the Americans: "In his writings Mitchell never attributed any special influence on his thought to Douhet, and U.S. Air Corps Officers would not publicly cite Douhet for several years."7 Perhaps it was because the Americans, unlike the traumatized British, faced the problem of selling air power theory within the context of American altruism and optimism. Douhet was clearly a scold, and his phrasing might not have sold air power to an American audience. Douhet was looking ahead to the needs for aviation in the next war, while the Americans needed the bloody imagery of the last war to sell aviation for the next war. As Douhet put it:  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 74 --- The Prophets 51 In the name of charity, let us forget the last war! Then it was possible to create an air force from the very beginning, by establishing industrial plants and creating the various types of plane. But at that time aviation itself was just being born, and every nation was in the same situation. But in future wars aviation will have grown to adulthood and will know its own value. And that will be a very different matter.. ..8 Indeed, Douhet took a position that was not to appear explicitly in American air power concepts until late in the prosecution of World War II: It seems paradoxical to some people that the final decision in future wars may be brought about by blows to the morale of the civilian population. But that is what the last war proved, and it will be verified in future wars with even more evidence.9 More pertinently, the geog