fit that pattern. LeMay may have been the quintessential example of the new leadership. Michael Sherry has described the two as follows: [What LeMay] prized most was his leadership in getting men ready for war. He excelled at fashioning reliable crews out of green trainees, ill-prepared for the smoke and confusion of battle. Always willing to experiment, he toyed with different bomber formations and bombing patterns and jerry-rigged new methods of maintenance and repair in order to increase the force available.... Operational challenges preoccupied LeMay, and for him joy lay in command itself—less for the power it bestowed or the victory it promised than for the creative skill it demanded. LeMay had little time or interest to explore the strategy or politics of air power. Before the war his rank had been too junior to place him in the service schools and the planning offices where these matters arose. The strategic issues raised by the failure of Germany's blitz against England, the RAF's shift to nighttime attacks against Germany, and the relationship between ground invasion and strategic bombing—these were beyond his providence as middle-level operational commander, and he was too busy anyway to worry about them. "The only thing I was thinking about was living for the next twenty-four hours and.. .trying to keep my outfit alive and the airplanes flying.... We weren't thinking about strategy at the time.... We had to have an air force before we could do anything.".. .LeMay's job was to fashion the machinery of war, not to worry about its purposes. To a surprising degree, Arnold shared that mentality despite his much loftier perch. Though a veteran of battles over air power and a defender of the AAF's interests, he was never an articulate or visionary exponent of air power on a doctrinal level. Almost everyone close to Arnold saw him as "in no sense a thoughtful, precise thinker but a doer." Had he been a visionary, he might never have become the air force's command