o war but both more finite than the war and transcending it because so many of the rewards were to carry over into the peace. Other men in combat performed tasks—bayoneting an enemy soldier, operating a machine gun—which had little or no counterpart in civilian life, whose only utility lay in war itself. They were simply warriors. To a considerable degree, airmen were technicians and professionals who happened to be waging war. This model of service in air combat, recognizable as still another expression of air war's inseparableness from a civilian context, placed airmen in the vanguard of a historical transformation in definitions of military service. Traditionally defined, such service was different and apart from the broader society, undertaken by men with a higher sense of duty, whose loyalty lay with the organization, whose objective was to win wars, and whose rewards could not be justified by the civilian marketplace. They had not merely a job but a calling if professionals, an obligation if conscripted. The status, rewards, and duties of combat airmen moved them toward an entrepreneurial or occupational model of service. Self- interest was defined as distinct from the warwinning purpose of the organization; rewards were defined by and carried over into the civilian marketplace; the rituals of military life were subordinated to the attainment of skills and status useful in a larger world. And because the distinction from the civilian world was eroding, civilians performed many tasks once assumed only by military men, and the language and methods of the civilian, particularly of the corporate world, entered military institutions. As volunteers for combat duty (even when initially conscripted), airmen were in a strong position to contract for terms of service. The air force's rotation policy, by limiting risks and establishing rewards validated in the civilian marketplace, looked forward to a practice commonplace in the American armed forces by the 1960s.3  File