rote: "The situation with reference to our strategic mission and the proper equipment with which to perform it, seems to be getting progressively worse, and we have no court of appeal that I can think of...." Then came the August 1938 meeting with Marshall. The War Plans Division Chief, upon returning from his nine days of air power indoctrination, found that, indeed, the airmen has no real representation on the General Staff. He was to become Andrews's court of appeal.20 George Marshall, even then, as Chief of the War Plans Division of the Army Staff, exhibited the broad and long range views that he would bring to bear on the nation over the next decade. On October 18, 1938, Andrews sent Marshall congratulations on his becoming Deputy Chief of Staff. He enclosed a copy of a talk he had recently given at the War College, saying it expressed the views of practically the entire operating personnel of the Air Corps...[who] believe in a larger percentage of high performance, large capacity bombers.... In every test or exercise we have ever had.. .this plane stands out head and shoulders above any other type; yet for 1940 and 1941 our estimates do not include a single one. For the support of the Monroe Doctrine on the American Continent such a plane would be of inestimable value.... On September 21,1938, Air Corps Chief General Westover was killed in a crash at Burbank. The next day Andrews was asked by Army Chief of Staff Malin Craig to report to him in Washington. He found himself in a meeting with Craig and all the assistant chiefs. Craig informed him they were prepared to recommend to the president that Andrews succeed Westover on the condition that he stop trying to promote the B-17. Andrews politely refused to accept the condition, and a few days later it was announced that General Hap Arnold was to be the new Air Corps Chief....21 Andrews had stood firm on the position that he had fought so hard for— getting the big strategic bombers the Army Air Corps needed to t