ntellectual embodiment of air power theory from the beginning. It would have taken more than word smithing of the axioms to have changed that predilection. Air Power as Vision When air power theory evolved into a vision for wresting the Air Force free as an independent institution, it was nearly perfect in its original form for the purpose. The atomic bomb made the claim of decisiveness plausible to all but the most skeptical (e.g., the Navy), but such skepti­ cism was rooted more in the ends than the means. Command of the air could take strength once again in the offensive since the destructiveness of a single bomber penetrating to its target was evidently enormous. And if the first two axioms had been made obvious by the atomic bomb, then the third axiom—the real end of air-power-as-vision—was handed a walkthrough. Thus, up through the birth of the Air Force as an independent institution in the aftermath of World War II and the atomic bomb, the concept of air power—conceived as a theory, applied as a mission, and exploited as a vision—served reasonably well. I can offer only slight adjustments on two of the axioms that might have improved them with the aid of hindsight. It was when air power theory was converted to a strategy for the Air Force as an independent institution, particularly for  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 236 --- Crash Analysis 213 its dominant command, SAC, that serious flaws emerged at the hands of technology and ideology. A Flawed Strategy Recall that the vision of air power was the Air Force as an intrepid band of aviators controlling the decisive weapons of war—the atomic bomb and the big bombers needed to deliver them—in a force eclipsing all other military forces in importance, size, funding, and esteem. When the Air Force gained its freedom, the only means for delivering the few available atomic bombs were Air Force airplanes, although the Army and Navy were certainly scrambling to break that monopoly. The Army was exploring alterna