52 in the form of the Advanced Manned Strategic Aircraft (AMSA). John Ryan was one of a long line of SAC generals10 who rose to head the Air Force. He stressed to [Deputy Secretary of Defense] Packard the bomber's vital role in strategic defense. A "mixed force," which included bombers as well as missiles, would complicate Soviet defenses and increase American safety. With the still-remarkable B-52 fleet aging (some of the older models were fighting in Vietnam), Ryan insisted a new, more capable bomber was needed. Packard agreed.11 As this quest for a "follow-on" bomber dragged on, the symbology of the new bomber grew more portentous: This ideal bomber [the B-l] would be a flying temple to enshrine the Air Force ethos: the dominance of strategic air power. Air Force leaders had been fighting to build such a bomber for more than a decade. Their B-1 would silence those who believed that the bomber was an anachronism in the age of missiles.12 More and more, treasure and careers rode on the outcome: Despite two costly experiences, the Air Force leaders were undeterred. Strategic Air Command generals dominated the Air Force. Most were pilots by background, with little knowledge of aeronautical engineering; they were awed by technology, having experienced the magical feats that man and machine can accomplish together in the sky. SAC bomber pilots, taunted.. .by the non-SAC fighter pilots flaunting their flashy supersonic planes, wanted to reach higher and faster into the wild blue yonder. And the Air Force as a whole felt driven to demolish all the criticisms that bombers were outmoded in the age of cheaper, faster intercontinental missiles.... The B-l bomber's demanding requirements had been basically established in a six-month 1963 study by Colonel David C. Jones and Lieutenant Colonel James Allen. Neither of these bright Pentagon aides had any experience designing airplanes. They didn't approach their assignment from a technical or engineering viewpoint. As pilots, the