d and important ends of air power; and 2. They revealed—through their decisions more than their words—that their true affection was not for the theory of air power, but for the airplane. The consequences of those actions upon their institution were pro­ found. In the absence of a unifying cause, the Air Force began to fractionate into factions devoted to missiles, space, and different kinds of airplanes. The aviators, by right of history and seniority, retained control of the institution; but their evident affection for their airplanes created a caste and, hence, competition among the factions. What emerged was an institution devoted to disparate means more than to unifying ends, with destructive effects upon institutional morale, dedication, and values. The concept of air power, having been well established by its advo­ cates and the Air Force, did not disappear. The aviators still talked about the concept—airplanes were still one means for fulfilling its ends—but not like they had before. Its articulation was softer and more circumspect because the central role of airplanes was no longer axiomatic; it had to be argued and crafted. Instead of arguing for the superiority of the ends of air power, the aviators found themselves arguing over its means: strategic versus tactical aviation, missiles versus aircraft, manned versus un­ manned aircraft, sea versus land basing, space versus air vehicles, etc. The aviator's original sublimation of their affection for the means— in order to advance the ends of air power—ceased. When they found that the means were not (at least to many) unique to the ends, the aviators shifted from selling the ends of air power to selling one of its means. But they had lost the altruistic or ennobling aspects of their cause and, perhaps equally important, they had lost their appeal to that larger audience which had to be convinced to support their preferred means. They had let the neat package unravel. It became increasingly obvious that the con