of the world pushed the airmen even farther from their previous concept of precision attacks against an enemy's war-making capability and toward a doctrine of massive destruction of large population centers. The Spaatz Board tried to meld its recent strategic experience with the new weapon, concluding that the atomic bomb did not change the basic concept of strategic air war but merely added a weapon to the arsenal." But atomic bombs would eventually become a two-edged sword. The Air Force would not only have to be concerned with delivering these weapons but would also have to prevent their delivery on the United States by an enemy. In stressing the crucial importance of establishing an adequate air defense at home, the Board echoed Arnold's view that the war's major scientific advances had enhanced the deadliness of air attack. With atomic bombs a terrible reality, air attack became the primary threat to the United States in the future. Thus, both Arnold and the [Spaatz] Board believed that the Air Force was now the nation's first line of defense as well as the main deterrent to any aggressor.12 Given its timing and background, the Spaatz Board was remarkably prescient about the future, including the demands of the yet-to-emerge Cold War. In its final report, the board offered seven conclusions: 1. The atomic bomb does not at this time warrant a material change in our present conception of the employment, size, organization, and composition of the postwar Air Force.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 161 --- 138 The Iearus Syndrome 2. The atomic bomb has not altered our basic concept of the strategic air offensive but has given us an additional weapon. 3. Forces using non-atomic bombs will be required for use against targets which cannot be effectively or economically attacked with the atomic bomb. 4. An adequate system of outlying strategic bases must be established and maintained. 5. A system of national defense to provide for maximum adaptability to new weap