p of the Air Force, however, remained firmly in the hands of the pilots and operators of World War II. When the development of missiles reached the point where their efficacy could no longer be denied—when they emerged in the hands of potential enemies, and when the Army and Navy appeared prepared to champion these new means at the expense of the Air Force—the Air Force leadership was finally compelled to include them. But the admis­ sion of missile and then space advocates into the Air Force was not as full citizens. The aviators dominated the institution; and while they tolerated others pursuing their own interests in different means or specialties, they demonstrated in many ways that aviators and airplanes were the main­ stream of the Air Force. This attitude was the beginning of an institutional divisiveness that would be even more destructive than the split between the fighter and bomber pilots. It was destructive because the exhibited discrimination was not in favor of an altruistic mission—striking quickly and decisively at the heart of an enemy—but in favor of an elite class: the pilots. The Blind Eye It was easy for the victorious aviators of World War II to be dismissive of the technical prospects for ballistic missiles. It was equally easy for them to be expansive about the prospects for jet aircraft: A top level scientific survey commissioned by the Air Force Chief of Staff, General Henry Arnold, concluded just after the war that long-range ballistic rockets were feasible. It added, however, that such weapons were not likely to be available until the distant future. For the present, Air Force attention should be devoted to manned aircraft and particularly toward the almost equally new jet airplanes. If any effort were to be devoted to long-range missiles, it should proceed cautiously by way of slower, less revolutionary, air-breathing vehicles. This judgment led to emphasis upon the air-breathing Snark and Navaho—a priority that continued into the 1950s.