ight between the Army, the Navy, and the little Air Force—it was really a battle of ideas, involving air-minded people and non-air-minded people in both services.. ..17 To the dismay of many, including both supporters and skeptics of air power, Mitchell went well beyond the theoretical preachings of Douhet. He took his arguments directly to the public by attacking the bureaucra­ cies he perceived as impeding the proper development of air power. But he was not vouchsafed a tidy overseas opportunity, as Trenchard had been, to make his case. Instead he plunged into a caustic, continuous attack on both the Army General Staff and the Navy while dramatizing the airplane's potential by his well-publicized feat of sinking captured German battleships. "That man," grumped President Calvin Coolidge, "has talked more in the last three months than I have my whole life." In 1925, after the Navy dirigible Shenandoah crashed with the loss of 14 men, Mitchell's tongue carried him too far when he blistered the War and Navy Departments with charges of "incompetency, criminal negligence and almost treasonable administration" of aviation. He was court- martialed for "insubordination and conduct unbecoming of an officer" and resigned on 25 January 1926.18 Mitchell's fate may have had a more profound effect than his advocacy on subsequent developments in air power: Two of the American mili­ tary aviation pioneers who followed Mitchell were clearly chastened by his fate: [Ira] Eaker drew important lessons concerning Mitchell and the best way to continue the pursuit of air force independence. About Mitchell, he commented many years later, he:  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 77 --- 54 The Icarus Syndrome invited the court-martial.. .as one of the methods of bringing before the people at large the neglect of military aviation.... His trial was high-lighted by the suppressions of the General Staff in those days against aviation.... The collapse of his military career was a sacrifice, de