rom the Allies. In June, Hoyt Vandenberg replaced Spaatz as Air Force Chief of Staff. The emphasis on strategic preparedness and deterrence, which had been instrumental in creating the separate Air Force, assumed even greater significance. In the fall of 1948, Quesada was called to Washington and informed by Vandenberg that he was going to reorganize the Air Force's operational commands. The Strategic Air Command would be strengthened  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 164 --- Breaking Free 141 while the Tactical Air and Air Defense Commands would be reduced to headquarters and placed under a new Continental Air Command. Quesada objected, reminding the chief of the promise to Eisenhower that there would always be a tactical force to support the Army. Vandenberg, disagreeing with Quesada's philosophy that the best way to keep tactical air out of Army hands was to make it indispensable while under the Air Force, and viewing Quesada's attempts at cooperation as a pathway to Army domination, went ahead with the plan. Spaatz, now retired, was furious. Quesada, "personally offended" at what he considered a violation of trust, turned down an offer to head the new Continental Air Command.20 Jeffrey Record describes the dilemma which tactical air power posed for air power theory and, hence, for institutional independence for the Air Force. The post-World War II rationale for an independent air force rested largely on two claims, one intellectual, the other bureaucratic. The intellectual claim was the proposition that air power, specifically strategic bombardment, afforded a quick and relatively cheap means of winning wars autonomously, i.e., independently of the actions of surface forces. The theory had two corollaries: (1) that the functioning of the modern industrial state could be brought to a halt via the aerial destruction of carefully selected elements of its economic infrastructure, and (2) that there was no truly effective defense, direct or indirect, against aer