sis. And that is what I proposed to General Ford a week later. By early June, I had my marching orders from General Boyd; and this analysis is a direct consequence. A first draft was available by the first of the following year (January 1992) and distributed to a few in RAND and the Air Force for their comments and suggestions. Even at that early stage, the analysis proba­ bly had some influence on the ongoing debates in the Air Force leadership about the future of air power. In a sense, this analysis became a part of the intellectual developments it sought to explain or urge; the analysis and the object of analysis had begun to merge. At that point, an analysis ceases, not because it is completed, but because the analyst has become transformed into a participant. Hence, this story ends with the recognition, in the final chapter, that the analysis presented here was beginning to influence Air Force policy­ making by the spring of 1992. The evolution of air power theory and the fate of the U.S. Air Force are far from resolved, even for the decade just ahead, but this analysis has been carried to a point where it must be exploited to shape those events, not extended simply to chronicle them.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 20 --- Preface xix Notes 1. Richard Szafranski, in "Desert Storm Lessons from the Rear," Parameters, (Winter 1991-92): 39-49, defines stovepiping as "the condition that exists when staff or support personnel forget that they are subordinate to a line commander." With an edge to his humor, Szafranski goes on to observe that "There's a lot in the stovepipes, but most of it is smoke." (p. 45, emphasis in the original). 2. Taken from my letter to Brig Gen Phillip J. Ford, USAF, Commandant, Air Command and Staff College, on 12 April 1991. The full citation for Peggy Noonan's book is, What I Saw at the Revolution: A Political Life in the Reagan Era, (New York: Ivy Books, 1991), 37,38. On those pages, Peggy talks about what happened when new managem