ty.10 Although it would be unfair to hang General McPeak's observation around his neck as a mission statement, it isn't unfair to look for signs of the Air Force mission when he talked about the purpose of the institution, even in passing. Those listening to General McPeak might have been excused if they tried to interpret his words by restructuring them in the form of a positive mission statement along the following lines: The mission of the Air Force is solely to defend the United States. The problems with this strawman statement, of course, are that it is neither correct nor unique. The mission of the Air Force is clearly more than defending the United States, no matter how broadly the word, "defend," is construed. And if the word could be stretched to cover everything the Air Force does, then that mission is not unique to the Air Force—all of the military services could lay claim to the same mission. (General McPeak subsequently came forward with an explicit state­ ment of the mission of the Air Force, acknowledging that,  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 291 --- 268 The Icarus Syndrome .. .strictly speaking, we have never been given a clear statement of the mission.11 But that important recognition and its correction came after the third draft of this manuscript and, therefore, is more appropriately addressed in the final chapter.) Notes 1. Lt. Gen. Charles G. Boyd and Lt. Col. Charles M. Westenhoff, "Air Power Thinking: 'Request Unrestricted Climb,' " Airpower Journal, vol. 5, no. 3, (Fall 1991): 9. 2. John L. Frisbee, "Introduction: Men with a Mission," in Makers of the United States Air Force (Washington, D.C.: Office of Air Force History, 1987), 2. 3. It is not a contradiction to ask that an institution be committed to purposes higher than itself, anymore than it is to ask a human being to be committed to higher purposes. Although we accept that institutions, like human beings, should have a great interest in their survival and fortunes, that may not b