ention is not necessarily to be preferred; but, if required, it needs to be planned and executed competently like surgery. This analysis is offered in that spirit—not so much to prove which diagnosis is right—but to carry the diagnosis that calls for informed intervention through to its logical conclusions of a prescription and prognosis. As with the problem of air pollution in the Los Angeles air basin, the indicated prescription may be one that would not harm the institution regardless of which diagnosis is right—or if all diagnoses have some merit. Thus, I hope that all who are concerned about the future of the Air Force as an institution will entertain The Icarus Syndrome for the time it takes to understand the thesis and its implications, whether or not they have made up their minds about the sources and solutions for their concerns. They can then decide whether the proposed cure for The Icarus Syndrome is unsuitable for their concerns or is a healthy regimen for any institution in these difficult times. Recently, while discussing the troubles of another institution with an organizational psychologist, I tried to put the scope of its problem in  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 46 --- Is There a Problem? 23 some perspective: I offered my estimate that those who were really unhappy with the institution's leadership might be a minority, perhaps only one-third of the staff. The psychologist raised his eyebrows at my denigration of the problem. He said, from his experience, an organization could be in serious trouble even if only a small fraction of the staff was dissatisfied. A few weeks later, I had the opportunity to relate the conversation to a retired flag officer, expressing my surprise at the psychologist's alarm. The officer confirmed the psychologist' s view from his own experiences. When a military unit in his service appeared to have personnel problems, a team of outside experts would come in and canvas everyone in the unit and then provide feedback