s on Japan, Eaker had commissioned the postwar planning the Air Force needed to adapt itself to a revolution in destructive power. On 14 September [1945], Ira Eaker formally designated Spaatz, Vandenberg, and Lauris Norstad, former Chief of Staff to Arnold as Commanding General, 20th Air Force, to determine at the earliest date the effect of the atomic bomb on the size, organization, composition, and employment of the Air Forces. He informed the members of what came to be called the "Spaatz Board" that the study and findings were urgent because of the "possible effect of this study upon appropriations and legislation which must be requested on Congress at an early date.. .."8 But Eaker's planning group had little more to begin with than the air power theory and World War II doctrine which had brought them to this decisive juncture. Even so, the theory and doctrine sustained them surprisingly well.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 159 --- 136 The Icarus Syndrome Spaatz, Vandenberg, and Norstad attempted to foresee the atomic bomb's implications for the next 10 years with little concrete information to guide them. Because of this, the report that emerged was cautious in tone and conclusions. The views may now seem shortsighted or naive, but they... must be viewed in the context of their creation—frenetic demobilization, hastily devised and often- changed plans for the occupation Air Forces, increasingly virulent discussions between the War and Navy Departments on unification and independence for the AAF, and an uncertain postwar future for the AAF. The Board argued that production and delivery were the most important factors to be considered in any assessment of the atomic bomb. The limited amounts of fissionable, weapons-grade material likely to be available and the great costs associated with facilities and bomb production, which itself was a meticulous and time-consuming process, indicated that the number of bombs on hand for any future conflict would be smal