g forged into a complex of forces, culture, plans, bases, and doctrine that would dominate the Air Force and strategic thinking for almost two decades, worldwide. LeMay's SAC would own the Air Force; SAC was the Air Force; and SAC was the world's most awesome and respected military force. Even as the Air Force was enjoying this "golden age" of air power theory—consolidating, even exaggerating, its realization through the airplane—the world and other institutions were beginning to explore and develop alternatives to the means, if not the ends, of the theory. The  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 170 --- Realization 147 theory, in its original form, would soon face competition; but the theorists had been replaced by operators who had more important, more tangible things to do. The Vandenberg Legacy As the Cold War unfolded, revealing its ugly dimensions in the blockade of Berlin (1948) and the Korean War (1950-53), the new and independent Air Force's greatest problem was logistical—similar to the problem Arnold had faced in the run-up to World War II. This time, Hoyt Vandenberg would lead the expansion. Few leaders have had as difficult a challenge as Vandenberg did as Chief of Staff. When he took command, the Air Force had just gone through rapid, total demobilization of aircraft, materiel, and personnel. His job was to build it up again. At the height of World War II, there were 80,000 aircraft and 2.5 million officers and men. When Vandenberg took over from Spaatz, there were only 375,000 officers and men—on paper, 55 wings, most of them with obsolete planes. At his retirement, Air Force personnel had grown to 960,000 officers and men, 137 wings, all of them combat ready. It was a remarkable achievement, the result of brilliant leadership.3 In rebuilding the Air Force structure to meet the Cold War challenges, Vandenberg saw both the limits and strengths of American air power. At the height of the Korean War, he said, Air power doesn't guarantee America's secu