airmen had gained all these objectives save complete independence.24 Once the intellectual separation between air service and air force had been accepted, the rapid evolution of aircraft technologies would favor the air force part of the two because the effectiveness of bombardment aircraft was much more dependent on enhancements in speed, range, and payload than observation aircraft. Improvements in aeronautical equipment and techniques during the twenties and thirties made the airplane (particularly the bomber) a powerful weapon, and greatly increased the combat capabilities of the Army's air arm. Army officers in key positions saw these changes taking place. They began to realize air power might be better employed if massed under a single commander rather than dissipated among ground forces. Loath to relinquish control over such a powerful and promising weapon, they created [a centrally controlled] GHQ Air Force as an active component of the Regular Army [on 1 March 1935]. This, as the General Staff hoped, quieted agitation for an independent air force.25 The wick on the flame of independence had been turned down for the time being. Any hopes that it might be turned up soon were quickly dashed by President Franklin Roosevelt when he took office:  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 88 --- The Theory 65 Denied independence, airmen wanted the power of the Assistant Secretary [of War for Air] strengthened. The General Staff wished to abolish the position that cut into its authority. President Franklin D. Roosevelt resolved the matter when, more as an economy measure than anything else, he left the post vacant after Davison [its first and only incumbent] departed in 1932.26 The flame of independence would not burn brightly again in America for another decade, when war would provide the opportunity for its airmen to test their theory of air power. Dismissing the Defense If all the prophets of air power theory emphasized the offense, Mitchell was the most outspoken i