rown out of the Army's coastal defense mission. However, the introduction of hemispheric defense and the good neighbor policy were the deciding factor. Where coastal defense had gained the grudging support of the General Staff, hemispheric defense brought the full support for the President for development of larger long-range aircraft which could be used not only for bombardment but also for reconnaissance, surveillance, and reinforcement of friendly nations and overseas U.S. possessions.. ,.26 The Gathering Clouds of War The challenge now changed from getting the right kind of bomber to getting enough of them. The doctrinal war would be replaced by logistical war. The Air Corps was left to build a new air force with hemisphere defense and aid to Britain and France as its only clearly sanctioned strategic missions. Not surprisingly, therefore, airmen largely kept their own counsel in 1939 when they speculated on their strategic mission, working outside the formal structure of strategic planning. Tactical school instructors, still the fountainhead of more radical air doctrine, acknowledged the immediate priority of hemispheric defense but continued to emphasize that selective attacks on an enemy's economic structure remained the ideal employment of air power.27 The rationale for the build-up of forces, then as now, took on the tone of deterrence to avoid rather than wage war: Major General Frank Andrews, commander of GHQ Air Force, gave a.. .guarded accounting of Munich's lessons in a well publicized speech on January 16,1939. Andrews...couched much of his address in the familiar terms of hemisphere defense. But he stretched this concept beyond the breaking point. "Our country should be the first to span the oceans both ways nonstop" by building bombers with "a tactical range of 10,000 miles." Most American strategists were planning to intercept any German penetration into Latin America once it began. Andrews, citing Munich, proposed something else: "to stop the aggr