sense of identity and the shared sense of purpose which have become associated with high-performing organizations. As a strategy, air power theory provided both the means and the end to the nuclear stalemate set up at the beginning of the Cold War. And with neglect of all four facets of air power—the theory, mission, vision, and strategy—the Air Force fragmented as an institution. To reunify and reinvigorate the institution, all four will need to be redefined. What Broke and When? If one could go back in time through the history of air power—as it evolved through theory, mission, vision, and strategy—what could now be viewed as broken, using 20-20 hindsight? The thesis presented here is that the Air Force neglected air power to its institutional detriment sometime in the late 1950s or early 1960s, when air power was being exploited mostly as a strategy. But were there flaws in the concept of air power earlier, when it was being exploited as a theory, mission, and vision? If there were—and I think there were—then they ought to be addressed in any redefinition of air power, even if those flaws were not central to its neglect and the consequences that followed. The search for prior flaws, even though the principal failure has been identified, is comparable to the philosophy of crash analyses. Examinations for potential flaws in the concept of air power can be simply made at the intersections of its four historic uses—theory, mission, vision, and strategy—and its three axioms: 1. Air power can be employed decisively in war by striking at the heart of the enemy. 2. To use air power decisively, command of the air (i.e., air supremacy or superiority) is a prerequisite.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 233 --- 210 The Icarus Syndrome 3. To gain command of the air and to use air power decisively in war, air power must be centrally and independently controlled. Air Power as a Theory As a theory, with 20-20 hindsight, it would seem that only the first of these three axio