n frequency, scale, and scope; yet conflicts in the form of riot and disorder may increase on all three dimensions. Whether we shall be better off or worse off will not be obvious. In general, the United States government may have less control over the future of the new world order (or disorder) than it would like to think, even as the American culture and commerce may have been the most influential forces in shaping these developments. As  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 273 --- 250 The Icarus Syndrome its domain of control shrinks, the American government may respond by emphasizing its national interests and its superpower status, with the risk that it may reduce, rather than enhance, the respect and influence it seeks. The audience for American foreign policy may be changing; it may be less other national governments and more their publics—who are watch­ ing and listening and to whom the power is shifting. The information revolution now underway has transformed the world; but the final form of that world is not entirely clear. It seems unlikely to be a more peaceful or kinder world. If violence organized by the nation- states declines, factional violence of all kinds may well increase. Many of the effects of this revolution will be unwelcome, particularly within hierarchical institutions; certainly not all of the information available will be uplifting to those watching or listening. What does seem clear is that the world has shrunk to a global village or community where many voices can be heard and where information is abundant, both for the first time. The United States has been the leader and role model in this revolution, through its culture and its commerce. It remains to be seen whether its government and policies will serve and support that cultural and commercial leadership or will, as the relative powers of the nation- state decline worldwide, simply try to conserve those previous powers as long as possible. For many Europeans, the corner has alrea