es and destroyers of commerce. The advent of air power holds out the probability of decreasing the effort and expense required for naval armaments, not only in the craft themselves, but in the great bases, dry docks, and industrial organization that are necessary to maintain them. Differing from land armies, which are in a stage of arrested development, navies are in a period of decline and change. The air force is the great developing power in the world today.16 Not only would air power relegate the surface forces to secondary roles, it would offer great savings to its owner and impose great costs upon its victim. The missions of armies and navies are very greatly changed from what they were. No longer will the tedious and expensive processes of wearing down the enemy's land forces by continuous attacks be resorted to. The air forces will strike immediately at the enemy's manufacturing and food centers, railways, bridges, canals and harbors. The saving of lives, man power and expenditures will be tremendous to the winning side. The losing side will have to accept without question the dominating conditions of its adversary, as he will stop entirely the manufacture of aircraft by the vanquished.17 The Dirigible Enigma The reactions of the early prophets to lighter-than-air (LTA) ships are pertinent to the thesis of this analysis because they offer a view of the air power advocates' deeper interests and motivations. If LTA ships could contribute to striking at the heart of the enemy through the third  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 97 --- 74 The Icarus Syndrome dimension—as they had against Britain during World War I—should they be included in the aspirations of the air power prophets? Or, was the air power theory only a veneer to justify winged military airplanes and flying them? As a window on motives, unfortunately, the airmen's attitude toward LTAs is not all that transparent. The theory and its prophets seem to have supported LTAs, but those who would have