r discussion and encourag­ ing me to press on, stressing how important the problem was and how much might be riding on our effort to address it. When I got off the phone and took my noontime walk, the pieces began to "click" into place, one after another. Within an hour, a hypothesis had begun to take form. Within a few days, I wrote a letter to General Ford outlining my new perception of the problem: As you indicated, air power is one piece, the profession of arms is the other. One is the heart of the Air Force, the other is its soul. The senior leadership of the Air Force is the trustee of the heart; but everyone in the Air Force is a trustee of its soul. The heart is about organizational purpose or mission—air power—and the soul is about the profession of arms—the absolute and total commitment to mission (what sets the profession of arms apart from other professions is the commitment to mission, even unto death). The problem, as I see it, is that the two—heart and soul—have failed each other: The senior leadership has failed to keep the heart—the mission of air power— alive and vibrant by keeping it at the forefront of all its actions. And without that mission, the members of the Air Force have had nothing to commit themselves to except their own careers or specialities. The leadership can't dedicate the organization to its mission just by lip service; its decisions (including promotions and rewards) must reflect that dedication, or its followers soon detect the duplicity. Given that dedication of the organization to its mission, everyone joining the organization can appreciate and elect (or not) to commit to the mission.... To be sure, not everyone who joins an organization will commit to its mission; but those persons are not professionals at arms and they are not the people that the organization should normally seek and reward. If the organization sends out mixed signals about its mission or its dedication to its mission, it can hardly complain if professional