ies and internalities, both the weath­ er and the instrument panel, can be addressed simultaneously. That said, two questions remain: 1. Will both be adequately addressed? Is it easier or more natural to watch the weather rather than the instrument panel? 2. Is institutional introspection more destructive than constructive at this time? Is watching the panel more likely to lead to vertigo than to recovery? These two questions call for judgments; and it is those judgments that form the premises behind this enterprise: • The Air Force, as an institution, has developed some internal problems that are adversely affecting its ability to deal effectively with increasingly severe external problems. • The Air Force' s abilities to address its external problems are considerably more developed and routinely applied than those for its internal problems. • The Air Force will benefit more from addressing its internal problems than it would from ignoring them. Indeed, if the Air Force can "find the bubble" again, it will not only be a much more comfortable airplane to be in, but it will be much easier to navigate through the present rough weather. Finding the bubble implies something specific that was lost from sight. / believe the directional bubble was the concept of air power. It wasn't lost, it was abandoned. Devotion to Means or Ends? The theory of air power—the idea of aviators unified in a cause much larger than themselves—was originally conceived around the airplane as a new means to broad and important ends. The theory began with the advent of the airplane as a practical way to provide two important qualities in warfare—speed and vantage point above the ground—and in two traumatic aspects of World War I:  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 53 --- 30 The Icarus Syndrome 1. the ghastly carnage of stalemated trench warfare on the grounds; and 2. the terrifying bombing of England from the air, first by zeppelins and then by Gotha bombers. The idea was that air power could