ce military forces—although it could do that—it was to become the dominant force in war. To have command of the air means to be in a position to wield offensive power so great it defies human imagination. It means to be able to cut an enemy's army and navy off from their bases of operation and nullify their chances of winning the war. It means complete protection of one's own country, the efficient operation of one's army and navy, and peace of mind to live and work in safety. In short, it means to be in a position to win. To be defeated in the air, on the other hand, is finally to be defeated and to be at the mercy of the enemy, with no chance at all of defending oneself, compelled to accept whatever terms he sees fit to dictate.6 These views would not be foreign to any advocate of air power today. The primacy of the offense in the air was an integral part of the theory. Douhet said that the nature "of air warfare is offensive.. .and should be so organized and trained...."7 The offensive from the air was not to be applied frontally, but selectively, with great care for the ends of war. It is clear that Douhet recognized the logistical nature of modern, mecha­ nized, industrial warfare: The maximum returns from aerial offensives must be sought beyond the field of battle. They must be sought in places where effective counteraction is negligible  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 84 --- The Theory 61 and where the most vital and vulnerable targets are to be found—targets which are, even though indirectly, much more relevant to the action and outcome on the field of battle. In terms of military results, it is much more important to destroy a railroad station, a bakery, a war plant, or to machine-gun a supply column, moving trains, or any other behind-the-lines objective, than to strafe or bomb a trench. The results are immeasurably greater in breaking morale, in disorganizing badly disciplined organizations, in spreading terror and panic, than in dashing against mo