untries. Symptoms of this devolution are discernible in the shift in control of public agendas between Western governments and the electronic media and in the gradual decline in authoritative regimes during the last 15 years. But a definitive impact of these trends on the fate of nations had not been seen until the last few years, in Eastern Europe and in China. The role of telecommunications in the events of the past several years has certainly been noted and remarked on by many observers. But the effect generally ascribed by the media, to the media, is more that of facilitating change than compelling change. Telecommunications are still more likely to be characterized by the media as a new factor to be  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 267 --- 244 The Icarus Syndrome reckoned with in the old order of things rather than the manifestation of a completely new order. That distinction may be crucial to the future. Marshall McLuhan would probably have argued that telecommunica­ tions are not simply a new factor to be reckoned with but are the dominant force that will shape the decades ahead. Opening Closed Societies This model of the future of the world suggests that the communist bloc failed, not primarily or even fundamentally because of its centrally controlled economic policies or its excessive military burdens, but because its closed societies were too long denied the productivity of the information revolution that was developing elsewhere, particularly over the past 20 years. The centrally controlled economies were not obvious failures 40 years ago. What has changed so dramatically are not the communist economies (until their collapse) but the free economies of the developed Western nations, nurtured, fueled and made all too evident by the information revolution. Absent the information revolution and its effects on the Western economies, it is not at all clear that the disparities between the Western and communist economies would have been so great. In only t