d reconnaissance," as the assistant secretary of war characterized it in 1913. By 1916 even the army's general staff, never given to a generous view of the airplane's potential, recommended aviation's eventual separation from the Signal Corps, while Congress was already considering a proposal for a cabinet-level department of aviation. During the war, aviation was finally removed from the Signal Corps' authority and might have become an independent service had the war gone on longer. But young airmen like William Mitchell and Henry Harley Arnold, who would later lead the fight for aviation's autonomy, were content before 1917 to remain wards of the Signal Corps, unsure as yet that they had either the doctrine or the political resources to fly on their own.. ..4 As a young army first lieutenant, Henry "Hap" Arnold clearly foresaw the possibility of city bombardment from airplanes, but not its signifi­ cance in terms of air power theory: As early as 1913, Arnold began to speculate on the strategic role air power might play in the future. In an article published in the Infantry Journal that year, he wrote, "The actual damage that can be done to objects on the ground from an aeroplane is very limited. But if 200 or 300 bombs are dropped in or around a column of troops, there will be some confusion and demoralization even if the damage inflicted is slight." He went on to say, "it is certain, therefore, that some damage can be effected by dropping explosives from aeroplanes." He emphasized that if a powder charge were "dropped into a city it would certainly cause considerable damage." This was the first written analysis, however sketchy, of the role of strategic bombing.5 The Legacies of World War I The experiences of World War I, particularly for the British, gave air power theory both its form and motivation. Air power theory would  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 67 --- 44 The Icarus Syndrome eventually become one of the war's fractious offsprings, but only a doz