nant Colonel James Allen. Neither of these bright Pentagon aides had any experience designing airplanes. They didn't approach their assignment from a technical or engineering viewpoint. As pilots, they thought more about how they wanted the plane to fly than about what might be the best way to accomplish the bomber mission. They had a mandate from Curtis LeMay, then Air Force chief of staff, who carried on his crusade to get a "manned missile" that could silence bomber critics like Robert McNamara.13 In the end, SAC and the Air Force got its "follow-on" bomber in the form of the B-1B, an airplane which may or may not have been  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 209 --- 186 The Icarus Syndrome technically satisfactory, but one which was clearly a political disappoint­ ment for both the Air Force and the American public. A battle had been won, but there was no theory for what constituted victory in war. The focus on means meant that the Air Force now needed a different kind of officer and leader: The generals who led the Air Force before the 1970s rose to top command through combat in World War II. The new men came to leadership when the Air Force was already an established, independent institution. They were molded by different experiences; to rise to the top in a huge defense complex, the new leaders needed management skills, and they needed political savvy to defend the Air Force's institutional interests. The modern Air Force had little call for crusty, undiplomatic leaders like Curtis LeMay. But like SAC pioneers LeMay and Thomas Power, [MG Kelly] Burke and [Lt Gen Thomas] Stafford both understood how closely the penetrating bomber was linked to the identity of the Air Force. Unlike their predecessors, however, they accepted the fact that the ICBM had forever changed the nature of warfare. If the bomber were to survive, its advocates would have to formulate new reasons for its existence.14 TAC Takes Over The most consequential effect of the fractionation of t