5 --- 282 The Icarus Syndrome If the Air Force mission is effectively redefined so as to be rationalized with history and future trends, less chauvinistic in its claims and demands, and embracing rather than discriminating among its contribu­ tors and practitioners, then the Air Force leadership has a fair chance at creating a vibrant, committed military institution. General McPeak put it this way: We need a mission that unifies all our people, that defines what makes us special, that can inspire, can make sacrifice seem worthwhile.3 To seize that opportunity, however, the Air Force leadership will have to adopt a demanding regimen: • It must consistently attend to the alignment of the mission with a changing world of technology and military challenges. • It must be loyal to the mission above things or people. • It must associate or identify its actions and decisions with the mission. • It must promote and reward people according to the mission. If that regimen can be adopted, then the profession of arms should find a flourishing climate. Defining a profession, let alone the profession of arms, can be more frustrating than revealing. It may be sufficient to separate the profession of arms from other professions on but one aspect: on the unreserved commitment to a lawfully assigned mission, even at the risk of deliber­ ately giving and taking human life. Even those in the military whose lives are not directly at risk in hazardous or combat operations, but who support those who are at risk, should be professionals at arms, for their actions, too, ultimately may lead to the deliberate giving and taking of human lives. Given that awesome responsibility, the true professional at arms, regardless of position or specialization, regardless of proximity to the hazards, cannot be deflected from the commitment to mission above all else—if necessary, even above personal safety, career, and associations. To be sure, not all military personnel will choose to be professionals at a