and flying them? As a window on motives, unfortunately, the airmen's attitude toward LTAs is not all that transparent. The theory and its prophets seem to have supported LTAs, but those who would have to pay for them did not. Significantly, Mitchell seems to have been a proponent of LTA ships after World War I: The development of airships has continued; and it will take its place beside the airplane as a coordinate branch of aeronautics. One cannot do its full work in a military way without the other.18 Mitchell described the efforts to acquire one of the German zeppelins for the Air Corps after World War I: In the meantime, we had tried hard to get one of the largest Zeppelins in Europe. We had sent Colonel Hensley to Germany to obtain one.... The contract had been concluded, the money sent over, and the work started by the Zeppelin people on a ship for this country, when the work was stopped and the whole proposition halted for several years.... We wished to use the great airships for reconnaissance problems, for transporting goods, supplies, and men, for fighting other airships and as an airplane carrier, that is, equip it with airplanes which could fly away from it and return to it, so that it could go any place over the ocean, launch the airplanes, let them do what was desired, and then have them return.19 To be sure, those whose careers were already entwined with the LTAs were more certain and positive about their potential, but they were a minority even among airmen and faced too many obstacles to flourish in the contests over scarce resources: The balloon and airship men held great hopes for the future of lighter-than-air aviation for both military and civil uses. Dirigibles looked promising for reconnaissance, bombardment, and transportation. But the dirigible's slow speed, poor maneuverability, and high vulnerability to both enemy action and natural elements offset advantages of range and carrying capacity. The lighter- than-air enthusiasts found little su