isclosed his plans. As fleshed out by his staff, Arnold's rationale for a permanent alliance of officers and scientists was both political and strategic. The strategic danger to the United States lay largely in the unfolding technological revolution: the United States would face enemies and the possibility of "global war" waged by offensive weapons of great sophistication. But the American response would be shaped by considerations of domestic politics. The United States had to reverse "the mistakes of unpreparedness  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 195 --- 172 The Icarus Syndrome prior to World War II," particularly the failure to harness civilian science to military needs. And technological development would respond to "a fundamental principle of democracy that personnel casualties are distasteful. We will continue to fight mechanical rather than manpower wars." Arnold had a certain brutal foresight into the shape of wars to come, a vision of intercontinental aerial struggle extrapolated from the lessons of Pearl Harbor and wartime technology. But the politics and strategy of future conflicts interested him less than their technological basis. "I see a manless Air Force," he, told von Karman: "I see no excuse for men in fighter planes to shoot down bombers. When you lose a bomber, it is a loss of seven thousand to forty thousand man-hours, but this crazy thing [V-2] they shoot over there takes only a thousand man- hours. ..." While other airmen might wax sentimentally about the manned bomber, Arnold asked von Karman to look into "manless remote controlled radar or television assisted precision military rockets" and imagined the day when such devices would "fly over enemy territory and look through the leaves of trees and see whether they're moving their equipment."17 Arnold was explicit about the need for dynamism considering internal and external forces on the military institutions: We must stop "shoeing dead horses." We have been doing that far too long. W