t who airmen were and what they were about to a general audience. He began with praise for the airmen, in a style reminiscent of Mitchell talking about the new class of people who were taking to the air: Military airmen are the chosen human instruments.. ..They fight and they fly; they strike a blow for country while dashing through the skies, man's last geographical frontier. The military airman is, therefore, most favored of all uniformed men. He must realize his great responsibility and the tremendous implications which flow from an acknowledgment of these facts. The world is now engaged in the first armed conflict where air fighting is likely to play a predominant role. The military airmen even now winning their silver wings will shortly bow before the world footlights as the prime actors in the fiercest drama ever enacted above the five continents and the seven seas.9 Arnold then "banked" the claims of the air power advocates: Some military men, outstanding among whom were General Mitchell and Admiral Sims, made claims for the power of air weapons so revolutionary as to be called fantastic by the Doubting Thomases upon whose ears they fell. The day to day deeds of military flying men today are making the wildest claims of those men of great vision seem conservative. Military airmen today need not be thus restless and critical. The deeds and accomplishments of military airmen in all the air forces of the world have taken care of that. No sane man doubts any longer the power of the air weapon.10 This claim allowed him to close the book on the air power crusade and lay out the challenge which now lay ahead, not just for pilots and air crews, but for all those needed to contribute to winning the war in the air.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 125 --- 102 The Icarus Syndrome The end of one era and the opening of another could not have been much clearer: The task of the military airman now departs from the crusading role. It becomes a task of organization on a