mber one engine, the number two generator popped its circuit breaker. Flight 226 had lost all generator power, even though two of its engines continued to provide adequate thrust for flight and hydraulic power for control. Backup battery power was available within the aircraft to power and illuminate the flight instruments and essential radios in just such an emergency; but it may have been inadvertently turned off in the hurried efforts to ensure that the power on the last generator was reduced. The battery switch was located right next to the galley power switch and while verifying that the galley power was off, the crew could have accidentally turned off the battery power. In any event, the flight recorders indicate that backup battery power was not provided for the cockpit instruments and lights. With no flight instruments and perhaps preoccupied with their futile efforts to restore electrical power from the number two generator or from the battery, the crew lost control of the aircraft and it crashed into the sea. It is apparent that many circumstances were involved in the cause of this crash; but what was the cause? Was there a single act or event that ultimately doomed this flight? Or were there many independent causes,  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 220 --- Picking Up the Pieces 197 each of which, by itself, could have caused the crash? Flying the 727 with one generator out was considered safe practice, yet it narrowed the safety margin. So did darkness and poor weather which imposed instrument flying for attitude control of the aircraft during its departure. Although the crew may not have correctly implemented the routine procedures for two- generator operation or the emergency procedures for one-generator operation, such failures would not have doomed the aircraft. Losing a second generator was not a catastrophic failure, because there was still a third adequate for normal flight loads. Even the loss of the third generator, brought about by the two