the institution's goals: Significantly, Arnold had several long conversations with Roosevelt's closest adviser, Harry Hopkins prior to Munich. After 12 September [1938], Roosevelt  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 123 --- 100 The Icarus Syndrome secretly sent Hopkins to the West Coast to inspect the aircraft industry and its ability to increase production quickly. At this time, Hopkins says, "The President was sure we were going to get into a war and he believed air power would win it." On 5 October, the Army again had told the Chief of the Air Corps that his continued arguments for long-range aircraft had been unsuccessful. The Woodring Air Corps program approved in March would be the guide for forthcoming expenditures and "4-engine bombers will not be included in the estimates for FYs 1940 and 1941."6 The big bombers had been turned down because they cost more than the twin-engined bombers of the day, such as the Douglas B-18 (derived from the DC-3). Since the mission was defense of the nation and the measure of defense was the number of planes purchased, the big bombers were easy losers in the Army Air Corps aircraft program. The break came when the aircraft program moved onto President Roosevelt's desk: On 14 November Roosevelt called a meeting in his office. Present were the Secretaries of the Navy, Army, and Treasury, the Army Chief of Staff, the Chief of Naval Operations, the Assistant Secretary of War for Air, and Arnold. To the surprise of everyone, except Hopkins and Arnold, Roosevelt dealt solely with the expansion of air power. Expansion of ground forces, he said, would not impress Hitler. Recognizing the important role which the Luftwaffe was playing in the appeasement at Munich, Roosevelt believed only airplanes would influence Hitler. He suggested an immediate increase in the production capability of the U.S. aircraft industry to 10,000 planes per year. Arnold would later convince him that the build-up should be based on quality rather than quant