ed the United States readiness for combat use of long-range ballistic missiles, placing the missile program with the Strategic Air Command. The intermediate and intercontinental ballistic missiles were in the Air Research and Development Command. He emphasized that existing air power was not sufficient. The next step was for the Air Force to control space—the twenty miles of atmosphere encompassing the earth as well as the regions beyond. This was the essence of his thinking: "We are working into the future, and in the future I see integrated forces of manned and unmanned [aircraft] systems, for missiles are but one step in the evolution from aircraft to true spacecrafts." This comment was reported in the November 30 issue of the New York Times.... He could see beyond the glamor of what seemed to be the weapon of the future— the missile—to its lack of flexibility. The Air Force of the future would need both. A lesser man would have "hung on to manned planes," and a man more limited than White would have been content with missiles. As early as December 14, 1957, on the anniversary of the Wright brothers' flight at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, White said in a speech to the embryonic Air Force Academy that the idea that manned aircraft would soon be a thing of the past was wrong, that the missiles of today "are but one step in the evolution from aircraft to piloted spacecraft. "When the B-52 finds its way to the museum, it will not be because man has been eliminated from flight. Rather," he said, "it will be because new equipment has been perfected to propel him higher, drive him faster, keep him in motion longer and enable him to do more tasks better." "It is quite obvious," he said, speaking before the National Press Club on December 6,1957, "that we cannot control air up to twenty miles above the earth's surface and relinquish control of space above that altitude and still survive.... We airmen who have fought to assure that the United States has the capability to co