--- The Test of Fire 113 The American strategic bombing campaign over Germany soon turned into a campaign for air superiority: In these complex and shifting aerial campaigns carried on from February through June [1944], means and ends in Allied air strategy had been neatly reversed from those posited in original plans. Where once defeat of the enemy in the skies had been seen as a preliminary to the bombing of his factories—at that, a preliminary American airmen had hoped to reduce through their bombers' formidable defensive capability—now the bombing was a prod to engage the Luftwaffe, the bombers themselves bait to lure it into combat. The air force's historians acknowledged this shift but concluded that "in terms of final results it matters little whether.. .the German planes were destroyed in the factories, on the ground, or in the skies." In fact it mattered a great deal, for it greatly altered the costs and nature of victory as well as the doctrine on which the air force rested its claim to supremacy and virtue. If precision attacks did not paralyze the enemy's war economy, then victory could not come until his forces were defeated in battle and his territory occupied, precisely the traditional method of war the air prophets had hoped to avoid. And if victory came in the traditional way, the air force served fundamentally to complement traditional strategies, succeeding by a grinding attrition whose toll for both friends and enemies mocked earlier claims about the merciful speed of strategic air power.20 Day or Night; Factory or City? The AAF battle for air superiority over Germany had to be fought at the same time as several bureaucratic battles: ...General Eaker was not just leading the American air attack against Germany; he was also waging several other campaigns crucial to Air Force success. One of these was with top figures in the Royal Air Force who sought to switch the American effort to nighttime bombing of cities. Another was the U.S. Navy, which sou