ed by the terror of air power applied against cities as a deterrent or a breaker of civilian morale. "With Mitchell's voice silenced, the most lurid predic­ tions came from England, where the fear of air war on cities remained greatest."33 And, the performance of the German aviators in the Spanish Civil War only increased these concerns:  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 102 --- Prophesy 79 British and American officials thought they were following the Nazis' lead, not pioneering the course toward air war against cities. But it remained the case that, in the 1930s, only England and America seriously developed the concept and instruments of strategic air war.... For reasons of deterrence, the RAF concentrated more on the bomber's role as destroyer of cities than did the Americans, who emphasized precision bombing... Nonetheless, a fundamental orientation toward strategic bombing arose, however confused its translation into policy. In England, a profound anxiety over exposure to aerial attack fused with an equally powerful sense of England's limited moral and material resources for conventional combat. In the United States, the material resources were ample, but political tolerance for using them was not. In both countries, abhorrence and attraction combined to make air power compelling. What resulted was the apparent paradox, noted by one authority, whereby nations "whose policy was normally defensive tended towards the counter strike deterrent theory, while those with aggressive intentions developed tactical air forces."34 Air power in prophesy was about to be converted to air power in being. Over the next few years, the airmen would be directly translating their newly forged doctrine into the development of forces—first a trickle and then a wartime flood—beyond their most ambitious dreams. War would ultimately demonstrate serious flaws in their doctrine, but that wasn't their concern then. What mattered to them as war clouds gathered was the impetus to develop