, he knew he had a fight on his hands. He added it was probably the only time in the trio's association they had ever been in full agreement on anything. Nevertheless, Marshall prevailed and the appointment was announced. It was the first time in U.S. military history that an airman had been appointed one of the four assistant chiefs of staff on the Army General Staff.23 Breakthrough In the anti-war climate of America in the 1930s, the big bombers would only be accepted if they were needed for defensive purposes. Offensive purposes wouldn't do. If the bombers weren't for coastal defense, maybe they could be for hemisphere defense. This turned out not to be the door, but the key that opened the door. Robert Futrell describes how the bombers were used to gain a broader horizon for their missions: First recognition of the new need for defense of Latin America had been brought to the War Department by the Department of State. Alarmed by the increasing Nazi and fascist activity in South America, the State Department had convened a conference with the War and Navy Departments on 10 January 1938 to discuss means of combating German and Italian incursions.... Among the other measures adopted, the conferees agreed that more frequent visits of naval vessels and demonstration flights of military aircraft to South America would impress both the inhabitants and the Axis with the U.S. ability to react in defense of that area. Obviously, the visit of the [relatively short ranged] B-18s to the southern continent would impress no one as they would have to sneak in the back door in short hops from U.S. bases in the Canal Zone. Therefore, the War Department directed the 2nd Bombardment Group to send out its B-l 7s on a 6000-mile "good-will" trip to Buenos Aires, Argentina. Six of the long-range bombers left Langley Field, Virginia on 16 February 1938 for  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 115 --- 92 The Icarus Syndrome Miami, Florida. The flight next flew 2695 miles non-stop to Li