ht air power from almost nothing to the dominant instrument in the theater campaign.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 33 --- 10 The Icarus Syndrome The siege mentality within the Air Force can be broken if the disarray is countered with an effective vision. The Air Force has the means within its traditions and culture to address this challenge. The authors are optimistic, but have a sense of urgency. The Legacy of Desert Storm Has the "view" changed since the stunning success of air power in the prosecution of the Gulf War? Without a doubt, it has. None of the five quotations used in the frontispiece would be credible "hooks" to gain a reader's attention today. Air power and the Air Force in particular have proven claims that have been challenged since their beginnings. The investments in technology, despite all the hand wringing over complex­ ity and gold plating, did pay off. Air power in all its forms—strategic, tactical, lift, space, aerial refueling, warning, surveillance, interdiction, logistics, close air support, stealth, defense suppression, precision guided weaponry, and air superiority—dominated the conflict. The Air Force stood proud; air power had come of age. In the final analysis, in its swiftness, decisiveness, and scope, the coalition's victory came from the wise and appropriate application of air power.... Air power found, fixed, fought, and finished the Iraqi military.... This was recognized by Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney who remarked, after the war, that "The air campaign was decisive.. .."8 But were the concerns expressed in the View completely invalidated by the triumph of the Gulf War? Did the institutional problems of the Air Force evaporate in the glow of air power's vindication? Few would make the leap. The outside critics of the Air Force fell silent. So did the critics of complex and costly, high-technology weaponry. The "defense reformers" turned their attacks away from what the American military was doing wrong and focused, i