rgets, planes, tactics, doc­ trine, and organization. The fixed anvil, provided by the theory, was the primacy of the offense:  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 100 --- Prophesy 77 Young Air Corps officers.. .were being told at the Air Corps Tactical School that "A well organized, well planned and well flown air force attack will constitute an offense that cannot be stopped."28 The rapidly moving hammer was the technology for Douhet' s battleplane, which now had to be defined. Fighters were seen as adjuncts rather than threats to the big bombers. Haywood Hansell describes how the doctrine for the big bombers evolved at the Air Corps Tactical School at Maxwell Field in Alabama: The argument leaned toward the bombers...[and not] the danger to the air offensive posed by enemy fighters. [Nevertheless] the Bombardment Section supported the development of long-range escort fighters, a position vehemently opposed by Chennault as Chief of the Pursuit Section, who favored short-range, high-performance interceptors. These questions were debated heatedly in an atmosphere of intellectual ferment that may be hard to imagine today. For the first time an integrated doctrine for the use of air power was emerging, and the technology to support it seemed to be within reach. Strategic concepts and principles of employment were put in writing. Texts were written, revised, and written again... The substance of that philosophy as defined at the Tactical School was that "the will and capability of a modern industrialized nation to wage war can be undermined and caused to collapse by destruction of carefully selected targets in the industrial and service systems on which the enemy people, their industries, and the armed forces are dependent; and this method of waging strategic air warfare is, in general, preferable to area attack of cities or industrial areas." Carrying out that strategic doctrine called for a clear definition of national purpose and strategic objectives, collecting s