-range bombers left Langley Field, Virginia on 16 February 1938 for  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 115 --- 92 The Icarus Syndrome Miami, Florida. The flight next flew 2695 miles non-stop to Lima, Peru; then, because of weather, proceeded toward Santiago, Chile, rather than directly to Buenos Aires. By the time the aircraft reached Santiago, the weather had cleared, and they went on to Buenos Aires rather than landing at Santiago.... Just three days later [after their return], seven B-17s took off from Langley for another "good will" mission, this time to Rio de Janiero—[for] another 12,000- mile flight. The good will flights, combined with the new recognition of hemispheric threat and the continuing Air Corps desire for more of the big bombers led Brig. Gen. Arnold, then Assistant Chief of the Air Corps, to undertake a new approach in an attempt to establish a definite mission requiring long-range bombers. Roosevelt, shortly after the order lifting the Air Corps operations to within 100 miles of the coast, had announced that the Air Corps would be responsible not only for preventing enemy landings on the North American continent, but also in South America.24 It was Arnold who saw the way to open the door with the key provided by the goodwill flights, aided by the war clouds then ominously gathering on the horizon. Meanwhile, General Arnold, the assistant chief of the Air Corps, expressed doubts that the roles and missions of the Air Corps could be justified on an abstract basis. Early in June [1939], Arnold expressed concern that the forces of aggression building up in Europe could well threaten the Western Hemisphere. He, therefore, saw the need to study the employment of the Air Corps in support of national policy as represented by the Monroe Doctrine.... [T]he Air Corps Board had never before addressed a specific situation that so clearly demanded long-range bombers and quasi-independent air actions as did the requirement for air defense of the hemisphere