lly attacked with the atomic bomb. 4. An adequate system of outlying strategic bases must be established and maintained. 5. A system of national defense to provide for maximum adaptability to new weapons must be established. It should be maintained at maximum effectiveness and should be capable of immediate expansion. 6. An intelligence organization that will know at all times the strategic vulnerability, capabilities, and probable intentions of any potential enemy is essential. 7. A large scale scientific research and development program with the development of new weapons is mandatory to insure our national security.13 Clearly, the implications of the atomic bomb on the size of the bomber force needed were at the forefront of Air Force concerns in those first few months after the war. The atomic bomb could be a bane as well as a boon to the postwar Air Force. On 3 December 1945, Ira Eaker cautioned the entire Air Staff about designating any atomic bomb striking force or a separate wing for atomic bombing. He thought it far better to designate the entire long range bombing force as atomic. It strikes me we are very likely to find the attitude of the War Department and of Congress to be that the atomic bombing force is the only strategic air force we will require. If one wing will do the job, then one wing will be the size of the strategic force.14 The concept of an alert force of nuclear-armed bombers as a deterrent had emerged within four months of the dropping of the first atomic bomb. Two days later [5 December 1945], the former secretary of the Spaatz Board, Col. William P. Fisher.. .outlined plans for building an atomic bombing force. Equipment and personnel then available would be used to set up a force "sufficient in size to fully exploit the expected availability and effectiveness of the atomic bomb." Outfitted with the latest aircraft and equipment, manned by the most competent personnel, and organized around the 509th, this force would be maintained in th