File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 2 --- THE ICARUS SYNDROM  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 3 --- RAND Studies Published with Transaction The Gradual Revolution: China ys Economic Reform Movement Hui Wang The Icarus Syndrome: The Role of Air Power Theory in the Evolution and Fate of the U.S. Air Force Carl H. Builder In Pursuit of Prestige: Strategy and Competition in U.S. Higher Education Dominic J. Brewer, Susan M. Gates, and Charles A. Goldman Linking Economic Policy and Foreign Policy Charles Wolf, Jr. Snow Job? The War Against International Cocaine Trafficking Kevin Jack Riley Troubled Partnership: A History of U.S.-Japan Collaboration on the FS-X Fighter Mark Lorell  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 4 --- CAUL II. BUILDER |J Routledge Taylor Si Francis Group LONDON AND NEW YORK  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 5 --- First published 1994 by Transaction Publishers Published 2017 by Routledge 2 Park Square, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxon OX14 4RN 711 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017, USA Routledge is an imprint of the Taylor & Francis Group, an informa business Copyright © 1994 by RAND. All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reprinted or reproduced or utilised in any form or by any electronic, mechanical, or other means, now known or hereafter invented, including photocopying and recording, or in any information storage or retrieval system, without permission in writing from the publishers. Notice: Product or corporate names may be trademarks or registered trademarks, and are used only for identification and explanation without intent to infringe. Library of Congress Catalog Number: 93-31554 Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data Builder, Carl H. The Icarus syndrome: the role of air power theory in the evolution and fate of the U.S. Air Force / Carl H. Builder, p. cm. Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 0-7658-0993-1 (alk. paper) 1. United States Air Force—Unit cohesion. 2. Air power—United States. I. Title.