capabilities and air power attributes—not so much about what they should be as about what they are. • Strikingly, it presents a perspective of the nation's interests and security needs which are extensions of the past, but projected into a future world environment that is admittedly, uncertainly different. • It briefly declares priorities only with respect to Air Force people and technology—aspects whose importance is not reinforced elsewhere in the document or supported by its balance. • It declares the attributes of air power that should be revered and preserved. • It devotes most of its attention to restating the traditional spectrum of Air Force missions. If there is a vision of the Air Force in Global Reach—Global Power, it is one of an institution which: • identifies itself proudly in terms of its present spectrum of capabilities and • sets its purposes on retaining and improving those capabilities for an uncertain world where it will play an even more central role in the nation's security.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 298 --- From Mission to Vision 275 If Global Reachr-Global Power redefines air power, it is air power doing what it has done before, only better and more essential to the nation's security in the changing world environment. The missions undertaken by the Air Force in the future will be what they have been in the past, but their balance may shift with the reduction in overseas presence of U.S. forces and the changes in the Cold War threat. No missions will go away; no new missions will be assumed by the Air Force. Perhaps the short title of the document will be its greatest, most durable contribution. Global Reachr-Global Power captures something that seems new and pertinent to air power in the future. Air power has finally achieved evident and routine global reach—not just through the aerial refueling of bombers, fighters, and airlifters, but also through the reach of intercontinental ballistic missiles and global nets of spacecraft. A