tions could defend themselves against fighters was open to question. General Arnold blamed acceptance of bomber invulnerability on teachings of the Air Corps Tactical School, and called on Maj. Gen. Delos Emmons, Commander of the Air Combat Command (successor to the GHQ Air Force) to submit a study of the bomber- versus-fighter problem.15 General Emmons called upon Harold L. George to testify since he had been one of the architects of strategic bombardment concepts at the Air Corps Tactical School (1931-1937) and was serving, at that time, with the only bombardment group equipped with the new B-17 bombers. Harold George.. .told General Emmons: "There is no question in my mind but that American bombardment units could not today defend themselves against  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 135 --- 112 The Icarus Syndrome American pursuit units." That forthright statement must have tried him sorely; it ran counter to all he wanted to believe. But it was a courageous and honest assessment that produced favorable results. The Air Combat Command found that "aerial operations of the present European conflict confirm the results of World War I: that is that the present bombardment airplane cannot defend itself adequately against pursuit attack."16 Nevertheless, Until the spring of 1943 the assumption that B-17 and B-24 aircraft in formation could defend themselves against fighters made the doctrine of the Tactical School seem valid. Then the "battleplane" did not work out as a defensive weapon and the need for very long range escort fighters was admitted, the only substantial modification of doctrine was the incorporation of the escort fighter within the strategic mission. During the 1943-45 planning period no appreciation of the possible defensive use of guided missiles was recognized, and all comment on guided missiles reflected a belief that in the future they would contribute to the supremacy of the offensive in airpower.17 The planning failure was not an inability t