ce characteristics. It is similarly only natural that airmen have proved reluctant to foster rapid advances in the field of remotely piloted vehicles, or RPVs. However much the official spokesmen of the air services may deny it, RPVs are not considered an appropriate topic for discussion by most pilots, among whom it is an article of faith that a manned aircraft can perform any mission better than an unmanned aircraft. This uneasy, love-hate relationship between technology and the Air Force helps to explain what happened when the Air Force and air power theory met the great challenges of the ballistic missile and space operations during the late 1950s and early 1960s. That encounter would be the turning point for air power theory and, eventually, for the Air Force as an institution. Notes 1. Webster's Third New International Dictionary (Merriam-Webster, 1986), 1209. 2. The following relies on material from my Masks of War. 3. The Air Force sought 70 groups after World War II, when it was dominated by strategic bombing enthusiasts. See Paul R. Schratz, "The Admiral's Revolt," Proceedings, U.S. Naval Institute, vol. 112, no. 2 (February 1986): 70. 4. Air Force Colonel John Frisby argues that my explanation of the Air Force preference for quality over quantity is too shallow. He writes (in a letter to the author dated 11 March 1992), "From my observations, much thought, analysis of threat, mission requirements, and projected needs always went into the process. New systems and force structure decisions were always carefully thought through." I would readily yield to his protest if we had examples of the Air Force choosing quantity over quality in its airplanes. Analysis may not be a sufficient defense of the Air Force preference for quality over quantity, for analysis can be doggedly pursued until the "right" answer emerges (see my Masks of War, 98-101). If quality is always to be preferred over quantity in Air Force airplanes, despite much analysis, then my simpler exp