Suddenly, the group became very animated, and they started to talk as if I wasn't there. They agreed—without exception as I remember—that they would set out to fix the promotion system. I asked what was wrong with it. The answers were quick and ratified with much nodding of heads: • The promotion system doesn't work as advertised. • The difference between how it is supposed to work and actually works is so large as to invite contempt. • Having a flag officer as a mentor is an invisible but widely acknowledged prerequisite to the good jobs and, hence, to promotion. • Just when junior officers have figured out how they need to get their tickets punched (i.e., the successful career paths), someone changes the rules and promising careers are sidetracked. • Some careers are dead ends from the beginning because they don't involve wearing a flight suit or wings. None of these complaints were new to me; however, their force and approbation were quite unexpected. This was, in contrast with my previous briefing for the faculty, a very animated and interesting discus­ sion; but the students' passion for the topic disturbed more than enlight­ ened me about what I needed to write in my essay. At lunch with a few of the faculty, I related my experience with the students that morning (the faculty had considerately, deliberately chosen to remove themselves from my session with the students, lest they inhibit the student views that might be helpful to me). Instantly, the lunchtime conversation changed; the faculty members became animated and they were unified in their assessment: • I had just seen a good example of what is wrong with midcareer officers in the Air Force. • The students are focused on their career tracks and promotions rather than their education or institution.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 17 --- xvi The Icarus Syndrome • The students are constantly on the phone to personnel managers trying to learn or negotiate their next career assignments. Again, these c