, moved en masse to another institution, the loyalty would be to the airplanes.. J False Idols As an institution the Air Force started to fractionate once it shifted its devotion from the unifying ends or mission of air power to its separate (and unequally statured) means. Missiles and space were not the only areas accepted as different means and careers in the Air Force. If they could coexist alongside the aviators, then so too could the long- suppressed fighter (pursuit) pilots. Tactical air power as another indepen­ dent means and career grew rapidly under the limited war theories of the 1960s. The Vietnam war brought TAC into full bloom and put TAC pilots into the senior leadership of the Air Force for the first time. SAC found itself challenged not only from within the Air Force, but from outside in the Navy's strategic encroachments. In their devotion to means rather than ends, and their devotion to the symbols rather than the theory of air power, the aviators allowed all to pursue their interests and specialties, provided that airplanes and aviators came first in priorities and promotions. The fighter aviators, who had long been suppressed by the bomber aviators under the tenets of air power theory, were suddenly released to pursue their own interests and, as aviators who were more removed from air power theory than their bomber brethren, eventually came to dominate the Air Force leadership. Not only was air power theory neglected, the people who were now 179  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 203 --- 180 The Icarus Syndrome running the Air Force had no roots in the theory. Indeed, the fighter pilots were knights of the air who were prepared to battle for control of the air, but who had lesser interests in either supporting the ground war or striking at the heart of the enemy. The purpose of the Air Force increasingly became one of continuing to acquire the systems of each faction—a new bomber, a new fighter, a new transport, and a new missile. Each of th