ortunately, it seems that our bombing is not really helping to win the war, but at least I am morally justified in working to save the lives of the bomber crews. In the last spring of the war, I could no longer find any excuses.... I had surrendered one moral principle after another, and in the end it was all for nothing.... ...The root of the evil was the doctrine of strategic bombing, which had guided the evolution of Bomber Command from its beginning, in 1936. The doctrine of strategic bombing declared that the only way to win wars or to prevent wars was to rain down death and destruction upon enemy countries from the sky. This doctrine was attractive to political and military leaders in the nineteen-thirties, for two reasons. First, it promised them escape from their worst nightmare—a  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 142 --- The Test of Fire 119 repetition of the frightful trench warfare of the First World War, through which they had all lived. Second, it offered them a hope that war could be avoided altogether, by the operation of the principle that later came to be known as deterrence. The doctrine held that all governments would be deterred from starting wars if they knew that the certain consequences would be ruinous bombardment. As far as the war against Germany was concerned, history proved the theory wrong on both counts. Strategic bombing neither deterred the war nor won it. There has never yet been a war that strategic bombing by itself won. In spite of the clear evidence of history, the strategic-bombing doctrine flourished in Bomber Command throughout the Second World War. And it flourishes still, in bigger countries, with bigger bombs.32 Not all would agree with Dyson's assessment of the validity of the theory. Fifty years after the RAF mounted its first 1,000-plane raid of the war (targeted against the heart of Cologne) the British still aren't sure: Historians are sharply divided about the effect of the British bombing campaign. At this dista