edom, the only means for delivering the few available atomic bombs were Air Force airplanes, although the Army and Navy were certainly scrambling to break that monopoly. The Army was exploring alternative means to the airplane for delivering atomic bombs, including ballistic missiles and guns. The Navy was working hard to acquire the means for atomic delivery from the sea—first with carrier- based aircraft and, as a longer shot, ballistic missiles. But until these alternatives proved to be competitive or even feasible, which took decades, the Air Force enjoyed a monopoly on the decisive weapons of war—the long-range bomber and the atomic bomb. The monopoly was broken only ten years after the Air Force won its independence, not by the Air Force's sister services, but by the Soviet Union through its accelerated development of ballistic missiles. Alterna­ tive means to the bomber and airplanes, in general, for the delivery of atomic bombs could no longer be dismissed by the Air Force as theoretical possibilities in the future; the nation's mortal enemy had boasted perfection and possession of these new means for delivery. If the advent of the nuclear-tipped ballistic missile shattered the Air Force strategy derived from air power theory, it was little noted at the time. The nation was preoccupied with a stunning challenge to its technical superiority; and the Air Force was confronted with more immediate challenges from its sister services which were arguing for their participation in atomic delivery by ballistic missiles. The result was an Air Force momentarily more concerned about its institutional domi­ nance of ballistic missile development—to protect its missions domains and its attachment to airplanes—than it was about attending its air power theory. Bureaucratic imperatives took priority over theoretical founda­ tions. Like in so many accidents, the pilots had been distracted by an emergency from paying attention to their basic flight controls.  File: --- builder