he air conditioners. The largest non-essential demands for electrical power came from the galley and the cooling fans for the two air conditioning "packs" or units. Like the thermostatically-controlled, electrically-driven radiator fans on many modern automobiles, the cooling fans kept the air conditioners from overheating whenever the forward speed of the aircraft was insufficient to provide adequate cooling air. This system was designed to operate automatically whenever the wing flaps were extended—i.e., at low speeds. Hence, the requirement to turn off one (or both) of the air conditioners during takeoff, approach, and landing to prevent the automatic air conditioner cooling fans from overloading the electrical system when one (or two) generators were out. 7. There is evidence from the flight recorders that the crew continued to work on restoring the generator electrical power and, too late, realized that the aircraft was out of control. 8. Aircraft accident report conclusions or summaries usually begin with some perfunctory statement about whether the aircraft or crew were properly licensed and documented. 9. Col. John Frisby, (in a letter to the author dated 11 March 1992), argues "that the pilots and operators, who grew up in the era when the visionaries were fighting for the very existence of the Air Force, were not likely to become visionaries themselves. Once independence [for the Air Force] had been attained, it became the supreme end to be defended at all costs. 10. See Chapter 13 for the context of this plea. 11. See Chapter 16 for the context of this vow.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 226 --- 18 Crash Analysis In ancient days two aviators procured to themselves wings. Dcedalus flew safely through the middle air and was duly honoured on his landing. Icarus soared upwards to the sun till the wax melted which bound his wings and his flight ended in fiasco.... The classical authorities tell us, of course, that he was only 'doing a stunt'; but I pre