would provide the opportunity for its airmen to test their theory of air power. Dismissing the Defense If all the prophets of air power theory emphasized the offense, Mitchell was the most outspoken in his dismissal of the defense available to ground forces. Any system of defense against aircraft from the ground alone is fallacious and money put into it, if not spent along carefully considered lines, is merely thrown away.27 Mitchell's reasoning derived from his consistent theme of airmen as a new class apart from the groundlings who were simply incapable of fathoming the workings or potential of air power. Ground armies, unfamiliar with the action of air power, are constantly setting up the claim that anti-aircraft artillery is capable of warding off air attack. This is absolutely not in keeping with the facts, and a doctrine of this kind is a dangerous thing to be propagated.. ..28 During the past year a great many statements have been made that the anti­ aircraft artillery is improving and that the results now would be different from those that occurred during the war. This is most decidedly not the case. The improvements made, which amount to little, are nothing in comparison with the improvements made in airplanes.. A Theory to Build Upon The early prophets provided a well-formed and articulated theory of air power. It had its roots in Italy, Britain, and America. It was colored by the experiences of World War I—by the carnage of trench warfare and, especially for the British, by the terror bombings from zeppelins and the Gotha bombers. Those experiences provided this theory with motivation  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 89 --- 66 The Icarus Syndrome (avoidance of bloody stalemates), orientation (the offensive), and focus (the strategic heart of the enemy). That theory took hold in Britain and America. It didn't need to be sold in Britain because that nation had been doubly hurt—by the loss of a generation of young men in the trenches and by experiencin