can redirection of effort to accelerate ballistic missile development did not occur until 1953-54, some seven years after the Soviet Union had initiated such a program.5 This neglect was not a deliberate conspiracy against ballistic missiles and for manned aircraft but was a myopia created by who the Air Force was and what it was about at the time. As Edmund Beard put it, My opinion is that the United States could have developed an ICBM considerably earlier than it did but that such development was hindered by organizational structures and belief patterns that did not permit it. In its simplest form, the proposition could be that the Air Force was committed to manned aircraft and particularly to manned bombers, and refused to change. Such a bald statement could not adequately describe the ICBM story, however, although in some ways it is quite true. Before the reversal and acceleration of 1954, the Air Force's stance toward ballistic missiles can best be characterized as neglect and indifference. This attitude was commonly associated with public judgments that the weapons were extremely unlikely if not impossible. Until late 1953, and despite the existence of contrary evidence and opinions, a general emphasis on manned bomber systems (or on missile types that did not threaten them) with a slow, conservative approach to ballistic missiles persisted within the Air Force. Contrary opinions were disregarded, contrary evidence dismissed. Men who had always flown and relied upon bombers found it hard, indeed almost impossible, to sense the revolutionary implications of ballistic missiles. Organizations that had been designed to advocate and maintain bombers continued to do so.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 191 --- 168 The Icarus Syndrome For much of the period there was no institutional lobby for the competing missiles; even though the Air Research and Development Command—an organization that perceived missiles as a major area of responsibility—had been created in