orce structure to meet the Cold War challenges, Vandenberg saw both the limits and strengths of American air power. At the height of the Korean War, he said, Air power doesn't guarantee America's security, but it exploits the nation's greatest asset—our technological skill. We cannot hope to match enemy nations in manpower but we can, as in the last war, produce more and better airplanes than any other country. And we have young men with the mechanical facility for flying all the airplanes we build. Training can quickly give them efficiency.4 This was the American formula for victory in World War II: substitute equipment for people, exploit the mechanical facility of its people, and give reign to its penchant for logistical efficiency. Air power theory did not fare well in the Korean war. As in the early days of World War II in the Pacific, the heart of the enemy was not accessible to air attack for decisive strikes. However, this time it was not because of the range of airplanes but the political limitations imposed by the threat of an expanded war in a world of atomic bombs. The strategic bombing campaign in Korea, with conventional bombs, quickly ex-  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 171 --- 148 The Icarus Syndrome hausted the worthy strategic targets; but the airmen pointed to targets in China and the Soviet Union as the true heart of the enemy. Within the political limits imposed, the principal roles available to military aviation in the war were tactical, not strategic. The reaction of the airmen was not to question the theory, but the war itself: The opponents of the air theory said the Korean experience "proved" that strategic bombers were overrated. The heavy bomber supporters said that this was not so; Korea was the wrong war, in the wrong place, at the wrong time. And nearly everybody missed the point. The strategic bombers were then, as they are now, fully able to do their job. The only hitch was that the assumptions did not coincide with reality. T