me the dilemma for SAC and its people that for the first time in the air power history, its full employment against an enemy signified the nation's worst nightmare. Although not intended as a mission statement, the slogan could be reasonably interpreted as one. The problems with it were several: Peace was the hope and purpose of all military forces, not just SAC; there was nothing unique to the Air Force in saying "Peace is our profession." Moreover, peace was not the profession of those profession­ als who had to forge the instruments of nuclear deterrence; their profes­ sion was to build and maintain the most credible (i.e., ready and survivable) and awesome means for destruction that the world had ever known. Air Force Chief of Staff, General John P. McConnell,6 reportedly endorsed the now-familiar slogan: The mission of the Air Force is to fly and fight.7 Sometime later, the next Chief, General John D. Ryan, took pains to put it more gruffly: The job of the Air Force to fly and to fight—and don't you ever forget it. Again, these slogans were not intended as mission statements, but as a reminder of where the Air Force, as an institution, should keep its focus. They were intended as sharp counters to the administrative and manage­ ment attitudes that seemed increasingly to be dominating Air Force concerns and decisions. But if the job or mission of the Air Force was to fly and to fight, the slogans sent an uncomfortable signal to many in the institution. Only a favored few in the institution were flyers; and even a smaller fraction of people in the institution, including pilots, would ever be called upon to fight. It could and was interpreted by many as a reminder of who was running the Air Force, not what the Air Force was really about. In October 1991, when General Merrill McPeak was interrogated by the press on the implications of the Air Force reorganization for the career prospects of non-rated (non-pilot) officers, he noted that: The Air Force does not exist