rtant, they had lost their appeal to that larger audience which had to be convinced to support their preferred means. They had let the neat package unravel. It became increasingly obvious that the concept of air power was not the raison d'etre of the Air Force, it was airplanes and flying. Once the concept of air power no longer served as the altar for common worship by aviators and groundlings alike, the unifying sense of mission, purpose, and cause within the institution began to evaporate. People found themselves in an institution because that was the place to do what they wanted to do—to fly airplanes, to work on rockets, to develop missiles, to learn an interesting or promising trade, etc. The institution fractured;  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 59 --- 36 The Icarus Syndrome and a hundred mischiefs were turned loose to bedevil the Air Force. In a sense, the fortunes of the Air Force as an institution rose and fell on its dedication to theory. Air power theory, valid or not, was like the wax that held together the feathers in the wings of Icarus. When the wax melted from the heat of the Sun, the fabric of the wings disintegrated and Icarus fell to his death. When the Air Force leadership abandoned the institution's single unifying theory in favor of the diverse interests of its factions, they allowed the wax to melt. I have called that institutional trajectory The Icarus Syndrome. It implies that the Air Force first exploited and later neglected the important ideas that gave the institution cohesive purpose and energy. What might have been done instead? The aviators might have recog­ nized that technology would eventually provide alternative, competitive means, alongside the airplane, to fulfill the ends of the air power theory. However, they tried to deny that possibility, even as the evidence grew during the 1940s and 1950s. If they had accepted the possibility, before the event, they might have reshaped the institution, the theory, and their affectio