yet complete. The developed world appears to be in a transition period where the sources of power—in things or in information—and the trustees of power—the nation-state or the individ­ ual—are still in the process of shifting. Nevertheless, more of the future of the world may be evident in the current trends of the information revolution than in the nationalism of the past two centuries. Role of Information Technology The current information revolution, which is only the latest major diffusion of power to individuals, can be traced back to the development of the telegraph and telephone in the last half of the 19th century followed by radio, television, and electronic computers in the first half of the 20th century. But it was the developments in solid-state electronics beginning in the 1950s that brought all of these devices into practical forms that could be mass produced for, distributed to, and used by individuals throughout the world. It is the worldwide spread of cheap, reliable, and powerful information devices that is truly revolutionary. Thus, the basis for the current information revolution is not in the advent of radio or television or even computers, but in their magical transformation by the silicon-based microchip in all of its many manifestations. Even the 100- year-old telephone has been recently transformed. That is what sets the past 20 to 40 years apart from prior history. Since the 1950s, the means for communicating, processing, accessing, storing, managing, and exploiting information have exploded. No di­ mension of human affairs seems to have grown or changed so rapidly, including the much lamented growth in human population and its effect upon the earth's environment. In the past decade alone, measurement of the information revolution on almost any dimension—numbers (of telephone circuits, television receivers, videorecorders, videocameras, or  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 264 --- A Changing World 241 facsimile machines), capacities (o