f the Air Force among the American military services to institutional introspection at all levels:15 Far from dismissing the "Brown Paper" as simple high-jinks, McPeak acknowledged during an interview session with reports that it reflected some discontent with the reorganization.... "I've been waiting for the Brown Paper to appear. I'm delighted to see that it's there because I was wondering if there was anybody out there listening. They are and they still have their sense of humor," he said.16 Several other satirical "guerrilla" papers have been circulating within the Pentagon's air staff: One describes the genesis of the current Air Force reorganization, in biblical style, as a bad idea that became camouflaged by successive levels of bureaucratic polishing as it progressed up the chain of command. Another lampoons officer retention policies in terms of league football teams retaining quarterbacks at the expense of their line and defensive players. None of these barbs, gripes, and complaints—by themselves—will withstand hostile scrutiny, able defense, or ample counterarguments. As one Air Force general explained, young people in the service are always complaining—he had, too, when he was a young pilot. Like engine knock in a high performance engine, what makes all this noise worthy of attention is not any single "ping," but the damage that may be occur­ ring to pistons, rods, and shafts when engine knock goes unattended too long.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 37 --- 14 The Icarus Syndrome Notes 1. Lt. Col. Stephen Fought (USAF, Ret), faculty, Naval War College, U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings, February 1989. 2. Gary Anderson, USMC Battalion Commander, Washington Times. (As cited in the original.) 3. Jeffrey Record, Baltimore Sun, 8 March 1989. 4. Carl H. Builder, The Masks of War: American Military Styles in Strategy and Analysis (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1989), 82. 5. See Chapter 23 of this analysis. 6. One of the authors of the origina