ole in the future. 269  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 293 --- 270 The Icarus Syndrome • It was decidedly up-beat at a time of fiscal bleakness and institutional uncertainty. At the very least, it was a soothing and reassuring balm to a troubled Air Force constituency. At best, it was a bold bid to define the Air Force's central role in the future of the nation's security. Under the circumstances, it is not surprising that Global Reach- Global Power should be seen differently by different people, in and out of the Air Force. Some saw it as the long-awaited vision for the Air Force. Some saw in it the Air Force mission defined. More expansively, some could see an emerging strategy for the nation's future security. Perhaps others could find in it a new theory of air power—a nation with global interests would need to reach out globally and exercise its power; and that could best be accomplished with air power. Given that potential, Global Reach—Global Power deserves careful examination. Has it redefined air power? Does it hold the seeds of a new theory for air power? Does it provide a new vision of the Air Force? To answer those kinds of questions, I will resort to analysis rather than summary judgments of the paper. Hence, I have undertaken a content analysis of the paper identical to those I have previously made for The Maritime Strategy4 and A View of the Air Force Today.5 Here, then, is an abstract of the ideas found in Global Reach—Global Power:6 THE AIR FORCE & U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY: GLOBAL REACH—GLOBAL POWER The world security environment is changing dramatically, requiring that we rethink the role of military forces in the future. Although the future security environment is highly uncertain, it is not likely to be tranquil. The nation's interests are global in a world where weapons are proliferating and becoming more sophisticated. Thus, the prospects for U.S. military forces to be employed in a lethal environment is high, but the time and place are hig