he original. The headings are as found in the original. The compression achieved in this process is about four-to-one with respect to the original. With much of the obligatory rhetoric and supporting evidence stripped away, the essential ideas and arguments are laid bare for scrutiny. It is a harsh process, one to which few authors would like to see their writing subjected. Politeness and political sensitivities may be lost in the process.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 28 --- A View of the Air Force Today 5 But significant ideas are not lost, they are revealed; so are the absence of ideas and gaps in logic. But most important, the nature of, and motivation for the document are often revealed. Here, then, is an abstract of the ideas found in A View of the Air Force Today:6 An Abstract of the View The senses of the five quotations in the frontispiece may be stated fairly, if more briefly, as follows: 1. Do away with the Air Force. 2. Air power is not independently decisive. 3. Abolish the Air Force as an institution built on a false premise. 4. Air Force influence in battle is minor. 5. Air Force interest in close air support is phony. State of Siege The dominant image for many in the Air Force is of an institution under siege and in disarray. This image would surprise many others because the positive aspects and developments within the institution are so numerous. But, despite the positives, the Air Force seems to have lost its sense of identity and unique contribution. Although the current external environment is a part of the problem, the institution's difficulties are mostly internal. The Air Force may have crippled itself for the decade ahead. Even if disaster is not imminent, the trends are adverse and need to be checked if the Air Force is to fulfill its national security role. Cultural Clues There are obvious cultural differences between the services. They can be overdrawn, but these differences can now be felt and deserve our attention. The touchston