commercial leadership or will, as the relative powers of the nation- state decline worldwide, simply try to conserve those previous powers as long as possible. For many Europeans, the corner has already been turned, and the new landscapes are more evident. Here are a few voices from Europe: Helmut Kohl, German Chancellor, has said, "I believe there can be no return to the nation-state of the nineteenth century." Francesco Speroni of the Lega Lombarda4 observes, Europe has three levels now—the EC, the state, and the region. The weakest of these is the state. The state may well disappear. You can't tell me that states really represent the people in the new Europe. Often they were formed for the wrong reasons, by diplomats and generals. And Eric Hobsbawn of London University notes the shift of power which is bypassing the governmental hierarchies: "The nation-state has lost control. The world economy became so transnational that the state was bypassed."5 More than 30 years ago, in commenting on Henry Kissinger's Nuclear Weapons and Foreign Policy, Robert Oppenheimer saw the shadows of what can now be seen so much more clearly:  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 274 --- The New Security Environment 251 Of course Kissinger is right in conceiving the problems of policy planning and strategy in terms of national power, in rough analogy to the national struggles of the 19th century; yet I have the impression that there are deep things abroad in the world, which in time are going to turn the flank of all struggles so conceived. This will not happen today, nor easily as long as Soviet power continues great and unaltered; but nevertheless I think in time the transnational communities in our culture will begin to play a prominent part in the political structure of the world, and even affect the exercise of power by the states.6 The Future of Nuclear Deterrence Even before the end of the Cold War, it was apparent that the role of nuclear weapons and deterrence theory was rap