espective surface forces. Why should the Air Force provide close air support for the Army, but not the Navy or Marines? Why should the Army be permitted to use helicopters to support its ground forces, but not fixed- wing aviation? If the means of air power are defined narrowly, primarily to manned aircraft, then much of the Air Force investment in missiles and space systems doesn't fit. Why shouldn't the missileers and space technicians argue, as the military aviators did before them, that these means should be independently controlled for their most effective development and employment? If the means of air power are defined broadly to include all means for striking through the third dimension, then the leadership of the Air Force should logically include as equal partners those who have devoted much of their professional careers to the development and operation of missiles and space systems. There is some cross-coupling between these choices: If both the ends and means are broadly construed, then the Air Force should also control tactical ballistic missiles as well as attack helicopters, for it makes no logical sense to control only the fixed-wing portion of the means for striking at enemy combat forces. If tactical missiles are seen as extensions of artillery, then how does one define the limits of artillery? What  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 244 --- Making Painful Choices 221 separates artillery from ICBMs or even bombers? If the Air Force is involved only with the fixed-wing means for engaging surface combat forces, then the basis for that division of labor is historical or institutional, certainly not logical or theoretical. If the ends are narrowly construed, but the means broadly contstrued, then the Air Force should also control the sea-based forces designed to strike at the heart of the enemy through the third dimension. These would include the SLBM force at a minimum, since its only purpose is to strike at the heart of the enemy through the thir