ans to visit the Air University (AU) and try out some of my ideas in the form of a briefing, before putting them to paper. My briefing, in March 1991, was deliberately designed to provoke. I wanted to put ideas in front of the ACSC faculty, much as a fisherman might cast flies on the water for trout. I didn't think all of the ideas would "fly," but I wanted to find out how the faculty saw things and where they were coming from in approaching the subjects I had agreed to write about. Thus, I loaded my briefing with one-liners about the history and future of the Air Force and about the significance of its heritage. To my surprise and disappointment, the faculty was polite and very quiet. I couldn't seem to cast anything on the water before them that would provoke much argument or disagreement. I couldn't get a bite, even though I knew they couldn't agree with everything I was saying. I was almost glad when the allotted time for the briefing and discussion came to an end. The faculty had arranged for me to meet with a group of students—one representative student from each of the class (seminar) rooms—so that I might learn some of the student views about the subjects to be covered in the essay. It quickly became apparent to me that the students, typically majors, didn't think they needed to be told what the Air Force was about after having served in it for a dozen or more years. As one of them put it, "If we don't understand the profession of arms and the Air Force by this time, we never will."  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 16 --- Preface xv I had some doubts about that statement, but adopted a less direct approach. I began asking them what they thought was the most important Air Force problem they would address if they were magically made chief of staff tomorrow. Suddenly, the group became very animated, and they started to talk as if I wasn't there. They agreed—without exception as I remember—that they would set out to fix the promotion system. I asked what w