ttention flowed to threading AWPD/1 [the AAF war plan] through the channels of the conservative general staff and to mobilizing industry for the war. To the air planners' relief, Marshall gave AWPD/1 his approval, steered it around the Joint Board, and set it on to a sympathetic Stimson. The general staff still believed that destruction of the enemy's ground armies was the only sure path to victory. But doubts about the survival of Britain and Russia ran large in the War Department, making a land invasion of the Continent seem remote at best: hence even conservative officers acknowledged the imperative of first weakening Germany by bombing. Strategy, then, along with Roosevelt's wishes about how to fight the war, made the War Department amenable to a vision of air war that would have seemed repugnant and fanciful a few years earlier.22 The British move to shift the American bombing campaign from precision daylight bombing of industry to night bombing of cities came at the Casablanca conference. By the time Roosevelt and Churchill met at Casablanca on January 14, 1943, Arnold had heard of Churchill's intentions [to shift the AAF into night bombing alongside the RAF].... Arnold rushed Eaker from England to defend daylight strategic operations. Eaker personally took his case to Churchill, assembling the arguments for the daylight bomber, principally the economy of force achievable through greater precision. Eaker's position was tricky, for he had little new to say to the British, and he had to defend the Eighth Air Force without appearing to derogate the RAF's contribution. As before, the best tack was to deny conflict; British and American operations would be complementary, not competitive, the British destroying urban areas, the Americans hitting bottleneck targets or marking them by fire for British attack at night. Together they would engage the German air force and cause German war weariness by round-the-clock bombing. Twenty-four hour operations would also head o