ocieties, nuclear weapons will come to be most effective in the hands of political terrorists  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 275 --- 252 The Icarus Syndrome who do not have a modern society at stake. Modern societies have more to lose than to gain through their use. Thus, nuclear deterrence as a strategy or policy is increasingly an empty observation of the state of affairs. The simple facts of nuclear weapons and modern societies will serve to deter those who have something to lose. We are moving from an era where the question was "who has the most or best nuclear weapons?" to one where the question is "who has the most to lose?" The political power of nuclear weapons is shifting from the strong to the weak. Military programs will have less effect on the future of nuclear deterrence than the political and social changes now being wrought by the information revolution. The greatest implications of that revolution for nuclear deterrence are the same as those for state-organized warfare—the decline in the sovereignty or political power of the nation-state and the rising power of transnational factions or groups. These changes will have several profound implications for the future of nuclear deterrence: • The information necessary for the development of nuclear weapons will inevitably spread beyond the control of the nation-states. • The transnational nature of commerce will make nuclear materials or the means for their production (or recovery) increasingly available worldwide. • Global access to information will facilitate transnational factionalism based on interests—religious, economic, or political—that transcend the nation-state. • Free access to information will augment the political power of individuals and transnational factions even as it detracts from the power of nation- states. One consequence, but by no means the most important, will be a wider distribution of nuclear weapons in the world, not only among the nation- states, but even to factions and