r central governments to convince their citizens to forfeit their lives through state- organized warfare is now being undermined by the availability of independent sources of information. This effect is now strong in Western Europe, and can be expected to grow stronger in the East as restrictions on the flow of people and information are eased. The economic interdependencies that were supposed to prevent war in 1914, but did not, have also changed. The growing economic interconnectedness between societies is different than that which existed prior to the information revolution. Before, it was mostly in trading connections, now it is in the business enterprises themselves—in the ownership, management, financing, and production. The risks of large- scale, organized warfare have become more than a threat to future trade profits; they now jeopardize existing capital and its purposes. Further­ more, in the information economy, the sources of wealth and power are increasingly dominated by human knowledge and creativity as material resources decline in importance. Wealth based on information cannot be acquired through the conquest of territory. Thus, information technology erodes both the motivation and the capability for nationalistic conquest. Violence of various kinds will remain, probably even grow, but the likelihood of wars of national conquest appears to recede as states lose the ability to dictate either the use or the availability of information.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 272 --- The New Security Environment 249 The leaderships of national governments everywhere are being chal­ lenged to stay ahead of their increasingly international publics and commerce, whose access to information and communications are no longer so disparate from that of their leaders. The Cable News Network (CNN) now appears to be more pertinent than the CIA for current White House intelligence, judging by what the White House staff monitors most continuously. Of course, the intel