ense funds were best spent on the air forces.1 The bureaucratic story of the birth of the Air Force as an independent institution is well documented2 and need not be retold here. What is pertinent, however, is how air power theory was exploited and altered in that process—how it served as both a means to institutional indepen­ dence and an end for the structural design of the institution. In dealing with tactical aviation, the means and ends became orthogonal, if not directly opposed. Accommodating the Atomic Bomb Whether or not the air power theory had been proven by the strategic bombing campaigns of World War II at the very end, the theory was accepted as validated beyond question because of the atomic bomb. "The atomic bomb did not change war, it enhanced its totality; and it ratified a shaky vision of strategic bombardment."3 The validated theory could 133  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 157 --- 134 The Icarus Syndrome now be exploited to achieve institutional independence for the Air Force. First, however, the Air Force had to assimilate the potential implica­ tions of this new, validating weapon. Had the atomic bomb vindicated the airmen's claim of the decisiveness of aerial bombardment, or would the atomic bomb diminish the need for the fleets of bombers the airmen cherished? The atomic bomb would be the first in a series of technical developments that would both enthrall and bedevil the military aviators by furthering the ends of air power theory while at the same time undermining its means. After the war, the Army Air Forces faced the immense challenge of developing a realistic program for its future. Among its most important problems was the assimilation of the war's most advanced technology into a vastly reduced and still unorganized Air Force. Although all the new technologies, from radar to jet engines and rockets, were significant, none was more important or represented a potentially more disturbing influence than the atomic bomb. The full impl