ast. The Navy insisted that the outcome of these games be kept from the public. It was not. Matters dealing with the promise of aircraft came to a head in May 1938. Conducting the largest aerial maneuvers on record, Andrews sent three of his B-17s out to sea some 700 miles in very stormy weather to intercept the Italian liner Rex, which represented an attacking task force. The photograph of two of the B-17s flying past the Rex, taken by Capt. George W. Goddard in the third bomber, made the front page of newspapers around the world. It sent a message to friends and to potential adversaries alike. The message bounced off the War Department, and Craig, instead of praising Andrews for the performance, informed him that henceforth his planes were not to venture more than a hundred miles off the coasts. When Andrews passed this order to Colonel Robert Olds, Commander of the 2d Bomb Group, Olds informed his crew that from now on all practice missions over open water would remain within the hundred-mile limit but courses would be plotted north and south.19 Trading a Career for a Bomber Frank Andrew' s problems were not fences drawn on charts to keep the Army airmen out of the Navy's hair but instead were fiscal, given the enormity of his vision for the times:  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 113 --- 90 The Icarus Syndrome The continuing effort by Andrews to augment the strength of his B-17s fell on deaf ears; cost and necessity were the principal barriers. When he let it be known that ultimately he wished to build his bomber strength to 244 B-17s, or one- quarter of his promised total while phasing out the inferior B-18s, opponents began to refer jokingly to the Boeing as "Andrews's folly." In a letter to Hugh Knerr, who had been transferred to Fort Sam Houston, Andrews wrote: "The situation with reference to our strategic mission and the proper equipment with which to perform it, seems to be getting progressively worse, and we have no court of appeal that I can think