arge the neglect of military aviation.... His trial was high-lighted by the suppressions of the General Staff in those days against aviation.... The collapse of his military career was a sacrifice, deliberate, to accomplish his purposes, and he accomplished just exactly the purposes he visualized.... I don't know that it had a favorable effect on public opinion. There wasn't any possibility of anybody doing anything with the General Staff at that time favorable to aviation. They were hostile to it and all its works because it was taking some of their hard-to-get funds for artillery, coast artillery, cavalry, ordnance.... We were looked upon as upstarts, unmilitary, non-military, much too outspoken for our own good and making dramatic claims for aviation and its possibilities—military—that had no basis in fact. The General Staff of that time was absolutely over-age and archaic... Had it not been for Mitchell and the little group that he inspired and assembled around him, we wouldn't have any aviation of consequence. We'd have had no training or air leaders. We would have had no logical air plans.... Without Mitchell's sacrifice there would have been no military aviation.... But it was many years after the Mitchell trial before the obstreperous "fly-boys," as the General Staff groundlings like to call them, came to accept or reluctantly abide by this realpolitik. Arnold was an early casualty. Only a few months after Mitchell's departure Arnold was caught distributing mimeographed material opposing General Staff policies and narrowly avoided a court-martial, being banished instead to an obscure cavalry post in Kansas.19 Hap Arnold also "learned his own lesson in military politics in the decade following the Mitchell court martial. He had been exiled to a cavalry post at Fort Riley, Kansas, and served his penance."20 MitchelPs New Breed Mitchell had acted out his image of a new breed of warriors. From the beginning, the military aviators were mavericks: In August 1919 t