ad the idea that everybody in the Air Force should be a pilot, regardless of whether he was running a hotel, a bus line, taking charge of motor transportation, or planning a hydroponics garden for the Pacific. As in several other cases, so in this instance I immediately ran into old-fashioned opposition—indeed, a regular sit-down strike.. ..'4 We can only guess how both Arnold and the institution would react if they could, somehow, be brought back together again, 40 or more years later. A Vision for the Future Arnold spoke comfortably about his vision, not just of air power, but of the Air Force as an institution: [I]t is worth noting that Arnold and Lt. Gen. Ira C. Eaker, Deputy Commander, AAF, and other air leaders, possessed a firm vision of the future. "We believe," observed Eaker in June 1947, "that the Air Force stands at the threshold of a new era. Whereas in the past it has been largely a corps of flying men, in the future, certainly, ten to fifteen years from now, it will be more nearly a corps of technicians and scientists."15 He recognized that a part of that constant institutional vision had to be a dynamism in its doctrines: "[A]ny Air Force which does not keep its doctrines ahead of its equipment, and its visions far into the future, can only delude the nation into a false sense of security."16 His faith in technology as a guarantor of national security and the Air Force's institutional future was evident early on: "General Arnold believed.. .that as long as the United States maintained its technological lead in aviation, in general, and in strategic bombardment, in particular, there would be little to fear from any potential aggressor."17 Arnold realized that the demands for national security were changing as a result of technology, that a mobilization base was no longer sufficient and that the nation would need a substantial standing air force. Even before the war ended, [he] was convinced that a force in-being was necessary because no longer would t