tablished Army or Navy weapon. Without harming the central purposes of either service, ballistic missiles offered the opportunity of broadening their roles. The Army, indeed, from their earliest days showed continuing although sporadic interest in the weapons and bitterly resisted the transfer of operational responsibility of the Jupiter IRBM to the Air Force.26 The unique Air Force institutional problem with ballistic missiles was its threat to the manned bomber—not to the fighter or transport—since it offered an alternative to the one means of air power theory cherished by the airmen. The ballistic missiles did not threaten the theory itself or its ends. Indeed, ballistic missiles would become the supreme means for underwriting air power theory as it applied to the Soviet Union during the Cold War. Yet, were another service to gain responsibility for development and operations of ballistic missiles, the Air Force's purpose, and indeed its independence, would be threatened. Neither the Army nor Navy suffered from the institutional paranoia paralyzing Air Force thinking during the development and introduction of ballistic missiles.... In underfunding development and imposing unrealistic performance requirements on ballistic missile technology, Air Force leaders secured the role of the manned strategic bomber. Maintaining a priority of a bomber tradition over strategic missile technology neither necessitated a rearrangement of the institutional environment nor a "restructuring of belief patterns."27 If fulfilling air power theory was what the Air Force was really about as an independent institution, the ballistic missile was a boon, not a bane. Ironically, the Air Force's parochial views of strategic bombing handicapped their ability to realize the traditional concept concerning the decisiveness of air power.... In the dawn of the atomic age, the ability to deliver tremendous firepower on target could have been accomplished by ballistic missiles more efficiently than