e Air Corps Board had never before addressed a specific situation that so clearly demanded long-range bombers and quasi-independent air actions as did the requirement for air defense of the hemisphere under the Monroe Doctrine. After an analysis of the potential military requirements for support of the Monroe Doctrine, [Major Orvil A.] Anderson, who drew up the logistical requirements for the study, was able to demonstrate the inherent efficiency of long range aircraft in terms of planes, personnel, and bases required to defend the North American continent and the South American continent down to the 36th parallel against seaborne threat or invasion.. ..25 Victory for the bomber advocates soon followed: Several factors combined to end the restrictions on Air Corps operations over the oceans. Congress had approved the acquisition of the long-range bombers in April 1939. The chief executive, and the other nations of the Americas, recognized the Air Corps mission of hemispheric defense; and, finally, on 1 July 1939, George C. Marshall became Acting Chief of Staff of the Army. Marshall, since he replaced Embick, had given a sympathetic ear to the Air Corps. He then gave the aviation arm an even more prominent role. With the permission of the  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 116 --- The Apostles 93 War Department, the Air Corps on 24 August, 1939, issued a circular which permitted air operations over the sea to the maximum range of multi engine aircraft. The long-range aircraft advocates had won. They had a mission and, on procurement, the aircraft that could perform it. The victory, after 14 years, recognized the strategic offensive role of the air force.... The major argument of Air Corps leaders for developing and procuring long- range bombers during the 1930s had grown out of the Army's coastal defense mission. However, the introduction of hemispheric defense and the good neighbor policy were the deciding factor. Where coastal defense had gained the grudging su