e very thing happened which Dcedalus had feared. The sun melted the wax and the feathers were scattered in the air. Soon there was not a single feather left, and Icarus fell like a stone from the heights. Dcedalus made a desperate effort to catch him, but it was all in vain, and the daring young man found a watery grave in the arms of the blue sea far below. On laboring wings Dcedalus carried the body of his son to the nearest island, and there he buried him. Ever since, the island has been called Icaria and the sea around it, the Icarian sea, and all over the world the name of Icarus is remembered whenever men wish to honour those who gave their lives to make the dream of flight come true.' The Anglo-American Divergence Even though both the British and Americans had embraced the same principal elements of air power theory—the primacy of offense, air superiority, and independent control for decisive use—their motivations toward the theory had been quite different since World War I. Those differences soon became apparent in the opening phases of World War II. 107  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 131 --- 108 The Icarus Syndrome The idea of deterrence through evident capabilities for strategic aerial bombardment took root in Britain 40 years before its transplantation to the United States. In World War I, Britain's loss of a generation of young men in stalemated trench warfare had been compounded by the terrifying aerial bombardment of its cities by German zeppelins and aircraft. Although the extravagant estimates of civilian casualties and panic that might result from future aerial bombardment were subsequently proven wrong in World War II, the interwar thinking about the future of warfare in Britain was dominated by those two disasters. The Spanish Civil War only reinforced the bleak impression of the aerial bombardment of cities: After the indiscriminate bombing of civilians at Guernica during the Spanish civil war, it was widely believed that aerial warfare w