ests through the military control and exploitation of the aerospace continuum"? It is at this point that theory pays off. Suppose one were to have asked the early air power theorists why anyone should care about striking decisively at the heart of the enemy through the third dimension. The answer would have been instant: Because that is the way to avoid your worst nightmare of a stalemated, bloody war. To strike at the heart of the enemy without fighting your way across the ground, without inviting the nightmare, you have to strike through the third dimension, and that means air power. And if the strike is to be decisive, it must be centrally and independently controlled by airmen, not by surface commanders. That answer flows directly and easily from a theory—from the theory of air power as it was formulated in the 1920s. It explains what air power does that is unique, why that form of power is important to those who must support it, and how that form of power must be organized and controlled. That is the enormous contribution of theory; and that is why air power theory is so important to the fate of the Air Force as an institution. Thus, if a vision is to invite dedication to some higher mission or purpose, there has to be some theory (or hypothesis) that justifies the enterprise. The original vision of air power was underwritten by a theory which justified air power, which made the enterprise worthwhile, which made it worth caring about, whether one was a buyer or seller. If air power is to be redefined so as to provide an effective mission and vision  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 311 --- 288 The Icarus Syndrome for the Air Force of the future, it will have to have its roots in a theory— in a reason why anyone should care about the Air Force, its mission, and its vision. A Theory to Fly By If the mission of the Air Force is the military control and exploitation of the aerospace continuum to support the nation's interest, then an air force would seem to ne