the aircraft. Losing a second generator was not a catastrophic failure, because there was still a third adequate for normal flight loads. Even the loss of the third generator, brought about by the two immediately prior failures, would not have been catastrophic, for there was battery power available to power and illumi­ nate the instruments for safe, controlled flight. Ultimately, one comes to the crew who either failed or were unable to control the flight of the airplane under circumstances which were specifically anticipated in the design of the airplane and its emergency procedures. If they had been able to provide battery power to their instruments and ensure control of the aircraft in flight, the crash could reasonably have been avoided. They may have been prevented from both of those things by their efforts to restore the power from the number two generator.7 Indeed, in those efforts, they may have accidentally turned off the battery power. Their priorities should have been first to control the flight. To ensure that control, they needed battery power for their basic flight instruments. Restoring generator electrical power should have come third. Without those cockpit priorities in place, flight 226 was doomed with the loss of the last generator, but not because of it. There was a single cause of this crash, but there were many adverse circumstances that led up to it and increased its odds. As a result of this accident, several corrective actions were undertaken by the Federal Aviation Administration. One was to provide for auto­ matic switching to battery power for essential flight instruments. Another was to relocate and redesign switches so that the battery power could not be inadvertently turned off. The Icarus Incident To suggest that what has happened to the Air Force was an institutional crash is stretching the metaphor too far; however, the questions raised in the investigation of a crash are good ones to ask about the causes of  File: --- builder_icar