under any theory of how to project  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 223 --- 200 The Icarus Syndrome military power, but under deterrence theory, mostly about how much destruction was enough. Once unified under a theory of air power, the Air Force had, in the space of little more than a decade, become a collection of object- and process-oriented factions under the management of the airplane pilots and operators. The time for fateful action—of commission or omission— had arrived. The fateful act was one of omission, sometime between the late 1950s and the early 1960s. The Air Force leadership had the opportunity then, at the very latest, to stop the fractionation of the Air Force by recasting its theory about air power into something much more comprehensive about both the means and ends of air and space (or aerospace) power. Indeed, there were some efforts to do just that; but they were little more than word changes because there was no concomitant change in the demonstrable preference of Air Force leadership for airplanes. The words weren't enough; and too many could see who ran the Air Force and what their interests and affections were really about. Discussion of air power theory was all but lost in the factional struggles over the primacy of strategic or tactical air power. Who was in charge at this critical time in the late 1950s and early 1960s? The Air Force Chief of Staff (1957-1961) was General Thomas D. White. He was the one who had asked the President for the B-70, based if not on its military value, then at least on its importance to the institution.10 And White's Vice Chief and successor (1961-1965) was Curtis LeMay. It was LeMay who expressed his determination to prevent the Air Force from becoming "the silent silo sitters of the sixties."11 It was the operators, not the visionaries, who would now lead the Air Force through the heavy weather of a changing world. Under the many challenges of their rapidly changing environment, the Air Force leadershi