re that it is presently denied from providing additional support to Navy or Marine forces, provided the air commander has suitable forces that can be so assigned. 2. Airlift for surface forces. Although the Air Force has a need for airlift to support its own combat forces, it is less obvious that it needs to provide general airlift for all other surface forces. The Army has often expressed concern that its needs for intratheater airlift may have been sacrificed for the Air Force's interest in long-range transport aircraft. Splitting up airlift among the services would seem, at first, to invite inefficiencies in scale and duplication of capabilities; but the diversification of airlift might introduce some healthy competition and greater flexibility. Other capabilities, such as tactical air power and aerial refueling, have been split among the services with evidence of cross-service benefits in developments and employments.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 246 --- Making Painful Choices 223 These kinds of arguments are most often offered by civilian analysts, critics, or "reformers" of the American military. The military, however, has not been eager to reopen the debates over roles and missions between the services. The services would rather work these issues at the margin than risk the intervention of congress or the administration in what could be tantamount to a throw of the dice. Obviously, there are sotto voce Air Force rebuttals to these arguments. If the close air support mission was given back to the Army, the following negative consequences can be foreseen: • The Air Force would lose to the Army an important justification for some of its airplanes, particularly the dual-role tactical aircraft that can be used as fighters and attack aircraft. • The Army would have its nose under the tent flap for an expansion of its fixed wing aviation into other roles such as air defense over the battlefield, at the expense of the Air Force claim on the nation's militar