V-l and V-2 as prototypes for future missiles, the Air Force was just as actively ignoring them. Air power theory devolved to massive retaliation on a scale that would make the destruction of World War II modest. Through the first decade of the new, independent Air Force, these two trends continued without any sign of impending danger. As pressures for missile and space developments increased during the 1950s, the Air Force kept itself in a competitive position with its sibling services, but not with the enthusiasm it had for new generations of supersonic fighters and bombers. The Air Force did not intend to be second to anyone in anything that might fly, and the airplane was clearly the most important thing that flew. Under deterrence theory (now eclipsing air power theory as the guiding compass of the thermonuclear age), the airplane still appeared to offer, by far, the most "bang for the buck." The triggering event was the Soviet development of ballistic missiles, dramatically demonstrated by the launching of the first space satellite. The Air Force hand was forced; and the Soviets had done it. The future would, after all, include missiles and space systems; and the Air Force had to be the leader in these fields or relinquish to others a virulent competition with the airplane. Still, that imposed choice did not foreor­ dain the crash which was to follow almost 30 years later. It wasn't the fact of accepting missiles and space systems into the Air Force that caused the problem. It was that air power theory had already been transformed—its means into an institutional affection for airplanes and its ends into assured destruction. The missiles and space systems were accepted into the Air Force as additional objects for someone's affection (certainly not the pilots), not under any theory of how to project  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 223 --- 200 The Icarus Syndrome military power, but under deterrence theory, mostly about how much destruction was enough. Onc