only directly threatens doctrine, but it can also indirectly threaten force structure. The only thing certain about the current pell-mell pace of technology in conventional air warfare is its spiraling costs, which are driving the price of individual aircraft up into the tens of millions of dollars. Since these cost increases must inevitably have the effect of reducing the numbers that will be made available, if not indeed the willingness to commit them to combat, some airmen—usually lonely renegades—have begun to call for a retreat to greater numbers of less capable aircraft.. ..,5 However, this retreat from quality in favor of quantity seems culturally remote. Norm Augustine, an aerospace executive of considerable renown and wit, observing the inexorable rise in military aircraft costs, has suggested,16 only partly in jest, that, if the current trend lines continue, the Air Force will find itself limited to only one very costly airplane sometime in the 21 st century. The trend lines seem so immutable that it is hard to see an escape from Augustine's conclusion. Could it be that Augustine is correct? By that time, few would care about how many airplanes the Air Force owned. By then, might the Air Force, itself, like coast artillery or calvary, become largely irrelevant? David Maclsaac has a more likely answer, but one which would not make the military airmen any happier: One possible switch of emphasis would be from the weapons platform—that is, the aircraft—to the weapons themselves, in particular precision-guided munitions,  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 186 --- The Technology Janus 163 or PGMs. It is only natural that airmen have tended to concentrate on the platform itself, especially with regard to improvements in speed, range, agility, and other performance characteristics. It is similarly only natural that airmen have proved reluctant to foster rapid advances in the field of remotely piloted vehicles, or RPVs. However much the official spokesmen of t