roduction to National Security Processes and Problems (Air University Press, Maxwell AFB, 1988), 167. Col. John Frisby (in a letter to the author dated 11 March 1992), notes that Drew and Snow may overstate the connection between strategic bombing theory and results of the air war in Vietnam. He says, "[AJirpower was grossly misused during Vietnam (both tactical and strategic).... I believe that it's still a debatable point to argue the possibilities of what might have occurred had Airpower been employed against the north—as it finally was—earlier in the war.... Also, the Vietnam War can be used to illustrate that military force alone cannot, by itself, resolve that kind of conflict." 17. Kotz, WildBlue Yonder, 189.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 214 --- PART V FAILURE ANALYSIS  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 216 --- 17 Picking Up the Pieces Accident: Anything that happens without foresight or expectation; an unusual event, which proceeds from some unknown cause, or is an unusual effect of a known cause.. J The Search for Cause When a plane crashes, investigators look for evidence of cause. I use the singular, cause, because that is the ultimate object of their search. Many factors may have contributed to the crash and will be examined for saliency, but they will look for that single human act—of omission or commission, in design, construction, maintenance, or operation—with­ out which the crash would not have occurred. Sometimes, several potential causes will arise and the investigators must consider different theories for their relative roles in the crash. In our increasingly litigious society, crash investigations these days may appear to the public as mostly a search for liability—a means for determining who shall pay the claims. But the history and purposes of crash investigations are longer and broader than this more recent civil phenomenon. Investigations are aimed most fundamentally towards a search for safety, for correctives—for ways to prev