ving the president a range of options in a crisis. Bombers would complicate the enemy's problem, forcing it to defend against several different kinds of attack. Finally, bombers as a demonstration of military might had a powerful psychological effect on friend and foe alike. The Air Force would repeat White's arguments, with embellishments but few variations, for decades to come. Eisenhower respected General White, both for his leadership in World War II and for his wide-ranging intellect. But the president also knew that White was pressing him as the official representative of a large bureaucratic institution with its own interests at stake. And the president did not accept White's military rationale for the B-70. He told the Air Force chief of staff that the bomber role was served adequately by the B-52, and by the time the B-70 was ready its role would be filled by missiles.... At the moment that General White lamented the decline of the Air Force, the service possessed 1,895 bombers, including 243 brand-new B-52s with several hundred more scheduled to be built. The Air Force had control of all three land- based ICBM systems. It was hardly about to go out of business. Tommy White's protests represented the Air Force's fear that strategic air power, the core of Air Force purpose, would vanish in the coming missile age. To keep the bomber alive and competitive against the missile, the Air Force thought it needed a much faster, more capable plane than the B-52.9  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 208 --- Slow Fall from Grace 185 As in Vietnam, the Air Force won some tactical battles in this defensive war with DoD and Congress for retention of a bomber force. In the late 1960s, after the B-70 had been cancelled, the Air Force made another run at a follow-on to the B-52 in the form of the Advanced Manned Strategic Aircraft (AMSA). John Ryan was one of a long line of SAC generals10 who rose to head the Air Force. He stressed to [Deputy Secretary of Defense] Packard