an (Boston: Brown and Company, 1973), 78, 79. 5. Walter B. Wriston, "Technology and Sovereignty," Foreign Affairs, vol. 67, no. 2 (Winter 1988-89): 63-75. Wriston expands on these arguments in his The Twilight of Sovereignty: How the Information Revolution is Transforming Our World (New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1992). 6. Gladys D. Ganely, "Power to the People via Personal Electronic Media," The Washington Quarterly (Spring 1991): 5-22. 7. For a graphic representation of this growth, see Colin Norman, "Rethinking Technology's Role in Economic Change," Science, vol. 240, no. 4855, (20 May 1988): 977.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 270 --- 21 The New Security Environment If a service does not possess a well-defined strategic concept, the public and the political leaders will be confused as to the role of the service, uncertain as to the necessity of its existence, and apathetic or hostile to the claims made by the service upon the resources of society.' Altered Landscapes If the dramatic changes now underway in the world are due, in large part, to an information revolution, the future may not be a new world order, but a period of world disorder until the transformation is widely absorbed or effectively accommodated in most of the world's societies. This is a revolution that is, among many other things, undermining the power of hierarchies, including those which have traditionally provided for our safety and security. The implications for security at all levels— personal, community, national, and global—are not likely to be mostly favorable.2 If the information revolution was a significant factor in the transforma­ tion of the communist bloc, then Western institutions may soon find themselves being challenged by the same information revolution, simply because hierarchies of all kinds are vulnerable to its effects. The authoritarian communist states were the most vulnerable to these effects because they depended, more than the democracies, on hierarchies an