opulation has the paralyzing feeling that there really is no protection against such daylight attacks.24 The American daylight raiders were apparently doing precisely what the British had been trying to do with their night attacks—paralyzing the population. By 1944, the two air forces were positioned to cross paths. The RAF was developing techniques that gave the night bombers a precision approaching that of the AAF's Fortresses and Liberators, while the Americans were beginning to loosen their definitions of precision bombing.25 Even retrospectively, the AAF leaders saw no inconsistencies between the theory and realities, or between the British and American bombing campaigns over Europe. After the war, Spaatz was asked, "Do you feel that the faith of the Army Air Force in daylight strategic bombing was justified by the results?" He responded, "Why, certainly. We might have won the war in Europe without it, but I doubt it very much. I think it was the combination of the two bombings, the night bombing of the RAF and daylight bombing, that was largely responsible for successful conclusion of the war there. Everyone thought a year or two before the invasion that to invade the continent of Europe was an impossible undertaking, that the German air forces would smother it as they did at that first operation at Dieppe by Mountbatten. But actually, the result of the, and I say primarily, of the daylight bombing, which forced the German air force back to defend Germany, prevented any large German air force [from appearing] at the invasion. I think that there were only two or three German planes that appeared during the whole landing in Normandy."26  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 139 --- 116 The Icarus Syndrome The Anglo-American Convergence27 By the end of the war, the American implementation of strategic bombardment had come full circle and coincided with the British ideas that the Americans had so vigorously resisted. Daylight precision bombing of military targets