"Then let's do it." Several weeks later, General Ford noticed that the buildings were still unpainted. He called his facilities manager to say, "I thought we had agreed to paint those buildings. What happened?" The facilities manager concurred with the wing commander's recollection, but then went on to explain: When the facilities manager had called the facilities staff at the higher command headquarters, they didn't like the idea of painting the naked brick buildings and advised against it. The wing's facility manager took the higher command's staff advice as overriding since he had to deal with them as fellow professionals on facilities issues. This was an example, in General Ford's view, of how the Air Force had become "stovepiped." Specialists tended to look up the pipe of their own profession rather than the chain of operational command. As specialists, they would be evaluated by fellow specialists; and their loyalties followed their profession rather than the operational mission.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 18 --- Preface xvii General Ford's vivid examples didn't solve my orientation problem for the requested essay; but they gave me firm footholds on the kinds of problems he wanted addressed in the essay he had requested. And he provided me—although I didn't see it at the time—with two important keys when he used his whiteboard to suggest the two parts of the problem he saw, "air power" and "profession of arms," were somehow related. I flew home and spent the weekend mulling over what I had heard, but the pieces didn't come together. The problem I was being asked to address was somehow different and larger than the one I had contemplat­ ed in my terms of reference and outline for an essay. General Ford called me early the following week, upbeat about our discussion and encourag­ ing me to press on, stressing how important the problem was and how much might be riding on our effort to address it. When I got off the phone and took my noontime walk, the