0s and early 1940s thought command of the air could be achieved by self-defended bombers. These would be the battleships of the sky. But others, like Claire Lee Chennault, foresaw a battle for command of the air, in which it would be necessary both to defend against the enemy's bomber attacks and to defeat the enemy's defenses against one's own bomber attacks. In the scramble for limited resources in the 1930s, the bomber and fighter factions found themselves pitted against each other. The advo­ cates of pursuit and interceptor airplanes for command of the air lost out to the advocates for seizing the offensive through daylight, precision bombardment from self-defended bomber formations. With 20-20 hind­ sight, the second axiom might have allowed for: • the need to defend one' s own essential means for war against attack from the air (as proven in 1940 over Britain and in 1943 over Germany); and  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 235 --- 212 The Icarus Syndrome • the possibility of a separate battle for command of the air prior to the decisive or most effective use of air power against the enemy's essential means for waging war (as in 1944 over Germany and in 1945 over Japan). These considerations could have been accommodated if the second axiom had been rephrased along the following lines: 2. To use air power decisively or most effectively, command of the air (i.e., air supremacy or superiority) over all vital regions in the war, one's own and the enemy's, is a prerequisite. To be sure, rephrasing the axiom—this way or any other way—would not have vouchsafed the forging of pursuit and interceptor aircraft capabil­ ities as equal partners to the bombers. The bombers could even be rationalized as defensive weapons if necessary.5 Bombers and the offen­ sive were the intellectual embodiment of air power theory from the beginning. It would have taken more than word smithing of the axioms to have changed that predilection. Air Power as Vision When air power theory ev