der_icarus.pdf --- Page 65 --- 42 The Icarus Syndrome by the end of World War II, those two forms would merge into one that would dominate the security structure of the Cold War. This chapter is the first of a series of ten chapters on the evolution of air power theory and the Air Force. The burden of these historical chapters is to demonstrate the important role of air power theory in the evolution of the U.S. Air Force. That is an argument of my thesis, not a fact; and since history is subject to considerable latitude in its interpre­ tation, I have elected to draw as much as possible on the interpretations of others rather than make my own assertions as to what history reveals. Several reviewers of this analysis have suggested that I summarize this history more in my own words than by using quotations from others. I have resisted because the interpretations of others collected here are rich in details, perspectives, and contradictions that I wanted to preserve for, and share with, those who might want to analyze the record for them­ selves. Therefore, I encourage readers to browse through Parts II and III for those historical aspects of interest. Those who are familiar with the development of air power theory and the creation of an independent Air Force may want to proceed directly to Part IV. In this first chapter, I focus on the experiences and the people from which air power theory sprang. This is not a history of military aviation before Douhet, Mitchell, and Trenchard2 but of the particular circum­ stances and events which shaped them and their eventual supporters of air power theory. Before Theory, Flight Before there could be a theory of military aviation, there had to be military fliers and aviation. And, in the beginning, the military aviators had other, more immediate concerns besides theory. Michael Sherry describes their precarious situation and pragmatism: Among American army and navy fliers.. .responsible for early developments in military aviation,