es a basis for directed action that can benefit human enterprise even though it is not quite correct or permanent. The fields of science and technology are defined by such less-than-perfect theories as the stepping stones to progress.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 314 --- A Theory to Fly By 291 By today * s standards, the original air power theory was not completely correct or enduring. But it made a powerful and, I believe, an essential contribution to several successful human enterprises, including the winning of wars and the independence of air power from surface forces. A redefined theory of air power need not be perfect or permanent, but it should inspire people to join in a directed human enterprise that they can and want to believe in—one that is worthy of the profession of arms and, if called upon, the risking of lives. That is the most important legacy of air power theory. When redefined, that will be its greatest promise. Notes 1. McPeak, Does the Air Force Have a Mission? 9, 10. 2. Boyd and Westenhoff, "Air Power Thinking" 9, 10. 3. Ibid., 11. 4. Wood, "At the Cutting Edge of Institutional and Occupational Trends," 53. 5. McPeak, Does the Air Force Have a Mission? 3. 6.1 am indebted to my friend and colleague, David J. Stein, now with the Department of Energy, for advancing the essentials of this formulation while commenting upon the press reports of General McPeak's observations in October 1991, on the purpose of the Air Force (see Chapter 22, fn. 8). This was not the first time David had, through his casual comments, provided me with intellectual keys to an analytical problem which was vexing me at the time (see my Masks of War, n. 24, 215). 7. Per Webster continuum: 1: a coherent whole...["air" and "space" form an indivisible operational medium, a continuum best described as aerospace—Martin Caidin]. 8. The military is constrained by international laws, such as the laws of armed conflict, even though civilian legislators may not be so obligate