nce—arms and ammunition—signal equipment, food, shelter, clothing, and the protection of air bases.... It may well be that eventually air forces of all countries will be separated from land and sea forces for the same reasons that sea and land forces were separated more than a century ago. There is as much diversity in equipment, strategy, technique and leadership between the air and land or sea operations as between land and sea fighting. It requires a different type of fighting man operating in a different type of vessel, differently equipped, differently trained over a long period of time, and instilled with different ideas of technique, tactics and strategy. This long step should be taken, if it is taken at all, only after careful planning and mature thought and not with a zest for radical reform. There should be a stage of gradual evolution as against an overnight cutting of binding ties.. ..4 A House Divided If what unified Army aviators was their desire for autonomy, what divided them was their affection for different kinds of flying and aircraft—bombers or fighters. Although air power theory provided a rationale for their independence, it also emphasized the primacy of the bomber, and the fighter pilots were ultimately left torn between their love of means and ends. That tension would remain unresolved for the fighter pilots until the 1960s when air power theory was neglected by SAC and partially subverted by TAC. Perry McCoy Smith described the dilemma in this way: The AAF, being a separate service without formal autonomy, presented its leaders with a dilemma: Should intraservice rivalry among various Army Air Corps factions (bombardment, pursuit, attack) be permitted and encouraged to avoid neglecting any airpower technological breakthrough, or should intraservice rivalry be suppressed in the interest of presenting a united front for autonomy? The habits and the rationale of the 1930's continued throughout the war; that is, the fighter enthusiast was isola