thority, responsibility, and risk for their aircraft and its safe flight that we should see it as remarkable that so many causes for crashes can be found elsewhere. Crash investigations are also frequently—and perhaps negatively— labeled as demonstrations of the "20-20 vision of hindsight." Indeed, that is precisely what crash investigators seek—what could have been done by those who designed, constructed, maintained, and operated the airplane which might, given what has been learned from the crash, have prevented the crash from occurring. If crashes due to similar causes are to be prevented in the future, then 20-20 hindsight is to be prized, not denigrated. If something was done six minutes or six years before the crash that should have been done differently, we need to know it and learn from it. The discovery of that something can be disparaged as "finger- pointing with 20-20 hindsight," but knowledge, not blame, is the goal. When crash investigators sift through the debris at a crash site, every broken piece and part, of course, is not immediately taken as a cause of the crash, but as a potential clue to the cause. The obvious point is that wreckage is not a cause, but a result of some failure. A broken wing at the crash site could have been broken upon impact with the ground, by collision with another object, by violent motion through or by the air, by structural failure of another part, or any number of other proximate  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 218 --- Picking Up the Pieces 195 causes. And each of these potential causes for the broken wing could be the consequence of an earlier or prior event. The investigators keep looking backward in time from the crash, through a chain of evidence and events, to that one act or event that can be properly blamed as the cause of the crash. That single act or event may be surrounded by all sorts of contributing circumstances—such as bad weather or a radio malfunction—each of which by itself might not have caused t