--- Page 295 --- 272 The Iearus Syndrome Reserve components are an economical hedge against the emergence of a major threat from the Soviets or elsewhere; but they are no panacea; and adequate active forces of the highest quality will be required. THEATER OPERATIONS & POWER PROJECTION The speed, range, and flexibility of the Air Force allows it to concentrate force in a responsive manner over great distances, thereby changing the military and/ or political conditions that necessitated the response. Joint/Combined Operations with Ground Forces: The main objectives of joint surface-air operations are to impair the enemy's resistance, freedom of action, and scheme of operations while enhancing ours and shaping the battlefield to our advantage. As their first priority, however, theater air forces carry out those functions which afford the greatest opportunity for conclusive accomplishment of the theater mission. In theater operations, the Air Force conducts air superiority, close air support, battlefield air interdiction, and interdiction. Because of their flexibility and striking power, air forces can be decisive and have a strategic impact on theater operations. Theater airlift provides flexibility to deliver, reinforce, and resupply forces where they are most needed. The Air Force may also support allied ground forces, whether or not U.S. ground forces are engaged. Presence and Direct Application of Force: Although the other services will be required for power projection, the Air Force will usually provide the President with the quickest, longest range response available. Long range bombers can project massive power within hours anywhere on the globe with precision and low risks of losses—and, if necessary, without forward bases or overflight rights. Long range bombers may be the only means for projecting power or enhancing presence quickly in many places on the globe. Forward-based tactical air forces are also capable of providing a day-to-day presence and projectin