he only significant skeptics were the new institution's older siblings—the Army and Navy—who had been roughly handled by the visionaries as they wrestled the Air Force free. But even as the Air Force found its independence, two trends were developing which would prove to be adverse only in their combination: 1. Alternative means to the airplane—in the form of ballistic and cruise missiles—to fulfill the ends of air power had emerged from World War II in the form of Hitler's vengeance weapons, the V-l and V-2. 2. The pilots and operators, who had forged and wielded air power during World War II, by their sheer numbers, were ascending into the leadership of the Air Force, replacing the visionaries who had created the institution on the theory and claims of air power. It was the simultaneity of these two trends that presented adverse circumstances that attended the cause of the crash. If the visionaries had  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 222 --- Picking Up the Pieces 199 remained the leaders of the Air Force, their attitudes toward the alterna­ tive new means found in missiles would have been quite different from those of the pilots and operators who followed them. Once they had gained their intermediate goal of institutional independence, the vision­ aries could again embrace the ends of the air power theory. Missiles would have been an acceptable, even attractive alternative means to the ends of that theory as they saw it. However, the pilots and operators entering the Air Force leadership were attached to air power theory more for (what they thought were) its only means, the airplane, than for its ends. The missiles were seen mostly as a threat to the airplane and, hence, to the institution.9 While the Army and Navy were actively exploring the potentials of the V-l and V-2 as prototypes for future missiles, the Air Force was just as actively ignoring them. Air power theory devolved to massive retaliation on a scale that would make the destruction of World Wa