orted a mainstream with a mission based upon a theory of air power. In the previous chapter, I described two trends—the emergence of alternative technical means to the airplane and a new kind of leader in the Air Force—that coupled together to create adverse circumstances for the institutional development of the Air Force. It was under these adverse circumstances that two events then conspired—one technological and the  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 228 --- Crash Analysis 205 other ideological—to cause the Air Force to neglect, if not abandon, air power theory during the late 1950s and early 1960s: 1. Alternatives to the airplane suddenly became competitive for the ends of air power (i.e., striking decisively at the heart of the enemy through the third dimension). 2. New national security theories—deterrence and assured destruction— emerged to dominate the design of strategic nuclear forces aimed at the heart of the enemy. The Air Force response to these developments was accommodation rather than adaptation; the Air Force accommodated the new means and theories within the institution instead of adapting air power theory to encompass them. Air power theory became subordinate to deterrence theory instead of the other way around. The retention of airplanes and the dominance of pilots became the institutional imperatives and, thus, the seeds of institutional fractionation were sown. Although several correctives have been proposed to reunify or reinvig- orate the Air Force, the one advanced here focuses on air power theory as the heart of the institution—not air power as originally conceived more than 70 years ago, but air power theory as it should have been reconceived 30 years ago. What should have been done 30 years ago and what should still be done now is to redefine air power. Air power theory was the intellectual vehicle for creating the Air Force as an institution; it can be the vehicle for recreating it now. The institutional problems now troubling the Ai