s on Earth?" Times Literary Supplement, 13 September 1991, 7. 2. Anne Eisenberg, "Metaphor in the Language of Science," Scientific American, vol. 266, no. 5, May 1992, 144. 3. This research is described by Carl H. Builder and Morlie H. Graubard in A Conceptual Ap­ proach to Strategies for the Control of Air Pollution in the South Coast Air Basin RAND, R-2917- SCAQMD/RC, (Santa Monica, CA: RAND, September 1982). 4. Ibid. 14.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 48 --- Is There a Problem? 25 5. At least to the degree that the Navy has been able to imprint the relationships between naval power and the security of maritime nations upon the American political consciousness. I am indebted to David Ochmanek for this point. 6. Builder, The Masks of War, 104, 105.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 50 --- 3 The Icarus Syndrome Dcedalus: a mythical Greek architect and sculptor, who was said to have built, among other things, the labyrinth for King Minos of Crete. Falling out of favour with Minos, he fashioned wings of wax and feathers for himself and for his son Icarus and escaped to Sicily. Icarus, however, flew too near the sun, and his wings melted; he fell into the sea and drowned. The island on which his body was washed ashore was later named Icaria.' Losing the Bubble Several Air Force personnel who are worried about what is happening to their institution have phrased their concerns to me in the question, "How did we lose the bubble?" Although "the bubble" can be taken as a reference to several different things, all of them imply an indicator of orientation or direction—like the bubble (hemisphere) of visibility from the cockpit, the spirit bubble in a navigational sextant to indicate vertical, or even the bubble in an ordinary carpenter's level. They could have just as well asked, "How did we lose our bearings?" Metaphors are attractive in circumstances such as these because it is difficult to name precisely what is missing or even to prove that anything is missi