rces shaping our world. New models may be required, not so much because the old ones are dead wrong, but because they may no longer describe the most important factors shaping the future: Monarchies didn't entirely go away in the revolutions of the late 18th century; they were just not as important thereafter in determining the face of the world. Nations and their political expressions are not going to go away in the revolutions of the late 20th century, but they may no longer be the dominant forces shaping the future of the world in the 21st century.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 259 --- 236 The Icarus Syndrome The past few years may be the harbingers of a new model for human affairs worldwide—of an era where national governments will experi­ ence declining control over those affairs. The future of the world may no longer be rooted in the political history of the past several centuries so much as it is in global trends being driven by profound changes in technology, principally those technologies associated with the current information revolution which has yet to reach its peak. And this suggests that national policies everywhere may have much less influence on the future world order than they have in the past. Models for Change Implicit in any perception of the future is a model of how the world works and, therefore, how it is expected to work in the future. Any model is a simplified explanation of why things work the way they do. Models, implicit or explicit, can be recognized in suppositions of the form, "If this, then that." A model is evident in the "domino theory" applied to American involvement in Vietnam: If America didn't stop the commu­ nists in Vietnam, all of the Southeast Asian nations would soon fall to communism, much like falling dominoes. That was a perception, a model, of how the world worked. The prevailing model of political developments—the one which has dominated Western thinking for nearly 250 years—derives from these premises: 1. Th