o the tenets of air power as originally developed by its prophets and apostles. His 4th, 9th, and 10th principles are Arnold's hallmarks—deep and abiding concerns for the importance of all Air Force people—on the ground as well as in the air—and for the key role that technology would play in the institution's future. Throughout the war, I tried to have the Air Force operate under certain fundamental principles: 1. The main job of the Air Force is bombardment; large formations of bombardment planes must hit the enemy before the enemy hits us. In short, the best defense is attack.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 126 --- Founding the Church 103 2. Our planes must be able to function under all climatic conditions from the North Pole to the South Pole. 3. Daylight operations, including daylight bombing, are essential to success, for it is the only way to get precision bombing. We must operate with a precision bombsight—and by daylight— realizing full well that we will have to come to a decisive combat with the enemy Air Force. 4. We must have highly developed, highly trained crews working together as a team—on the ground for maintenance and in the air for combat. 5. In order to bring the war home to Germany and Japan, and deprive them of the things that are essential for their war operations, we must carry out strategic precision bombing to key targets, deep in the enemy territory, such as airplane factories, oil refineries, steel mills, aluminum plants, submarine pens, navy yards, etc. 6. In addition to our strategic bombing, we must carry out tactical operations in cooperation with ground troops. For that purpose we must have fighters, dive bombers, and light bombers for attacking enemy airfields, communication centers, motor convoys, and troops. 7. All types of bombing operations must be protected by fighter airplanes. This was proved to be essential in the Battle of Britain, and prior to that our own exercises with bombers and fighters indicated that bombers a