d the most powerful military instruments ever fashioned. With the vision a reality, air power theory became the basis for the dominant strategy in the Cold War. The means were long-range bombers coupled with atomic bombs. The end was first coercion and then deterrence by the threat of massive retaliation and, later, assured destruc­ tion. The relationship between the means and end was the Single Integrated Operations Plan (SIOP), owned by the Air Force's bomber faction, the Strategic Air Command. What had begun as air power theory had evolved by stages—through mission and vision—to air power strategy in the nuclear age. It was at this point that the original air power theory reached its ultimate expression, became frozen, and spawned a new and ultimately challenging theory to the Air Force. Deterrence theory, unlike air power theory, was a logistical theory of destruction rather than a theory of new means for waging warfare. Deterrence theory was indifferent to the means for transporting weapons except for the costs to provide delivered weapons. Deterrence theory was the domain of scientists and analysts, not aviators or pilots. The door had been opened to competitive means to the airplane for the  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 232 --- Crash Analysis 209 delivery of nuclear weapons. Pandora's Box had been opened while the Air Force leadership had been preoccupied with acquiring its next generation of bombers. The differences between theory, mission, vision, and strategy tell the story of the ascendency of air power: As a theory, air power was an idea and argument about what could and ought to be. As a mission, air power theory was a military trust to be fulfilled. As a vision, air power was an attainable dream of institutional independence, providing the unique sense of identity and the shared sense of purpose which have become associated with high-performing organizations. As a strategy, air power theory provided both the means and the end to the nuclear st