ir force's rotation policy, by limiting risks and establishing rewards validated in the civilian marketplace, looked forward to a practice commonplace in the American armed forces by the 1960s.3  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 205 --- 182 The Icarus Syndrome The bond was now the profession of flying rather than the profession of arms: The goals defined for airmen accorded well with those held by civilians and generals serving the wartime air force. For all, there was a definition of goals and rewards distinct from a traditional military ethic of winning wars. Victory could not be forgotten; it had attractions of its own, and it was a vehicle for meeting other goals. But mastery of technique—bureaucratic, intellectual, scientific, mechanical—promised rewards apart from and beyond the objective of winning the war. The inventors, organizers and handlers of the technique of air war found a satisfaction in war that infantrymen or their commanders could not achieve. Concern with mastering technique was often what the leaders of the air force meant when they referred to the operational necessities that supposedly dictated strategy and tactics.... Because the criteria governing air war did not relate wholly to war itself, bombing had a momentum apart from the conflict. Because men did not have to view bombing solely as an act of war but could also see it as the perfection of technique, they did not always look at its consequences in war or measure its virtues in terms of its impact on war.. ..4 Overkill The quest for means rather than ends led to insatiable appetites for "follow-on" vehicles: Meanwhile, Congress and the Air Force pushed for more ICBMs and for more B-52 bombers. Eisenhower reluctantly agreed to a hundred more planes, but observed, "If six hundred won't do the job, certainly seven hundred won't." Pressed still again for more B-52s, Eisenhower retorted: "I don't know how many times you can kill a man, but about three should be enough." In the fall of 19