range of 10,000 miles." Most American strategists were planning to intercept any German penetration into Latin America once it began. Andrews, citing Munich, proposed something else: "to stop the aggressor nation from even planning the attack, through fear of retaliation." Air power should be seen not simply as a war-fighting instrument but "as an instrument of national policy," one capable, as Munich showed, of "toppling the diplomatic balance" and perhaps eventually creating mutual deterrence through terror between two nations both "capable of powerful air action."  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 117 --- 94 The Icarus Syndrome Officers like.. .Andrews were trying to link the aerial weapon to national policy, that is, to justify its potential not only for winning wars but for sustaining peacetime policies. They almost, but not quite, made the link.28 But the build-up of air power for the coming war could not provide for capabilities which the theory had neglected and even suppressed. Though the airmen spent much time between wars theorizing and experimenting with employment of air power, combat would disclose tactical shortcomings. For instance, a great deal more experimentation would be needed in actual operations to find the best way for executing a raid using hundreds of bombers, and for protecting them from destruction by enemy planes. Further, war revealed that the airmen of the 1930s, obsessed with strategic bombardment, had neglected tactical air power, the air support of ground forces that would be vital to the campaigns of American and Allied armies in North Africa and Europe.29 However, the theory was an argument, not a fact. It was an argument toward ends, and the road toward the ends of the argument was finally being straightened and paved: "While the developments of the twenties and thirties did not prepare the Army's air arm for the war it would fight, they laid a foundation upon which to build the Army Air Forces of World War II."30 And, the A