complementary, not competitive. When operations must be carried out quickly, airlift will be the key player, as exemplified by OPERATION JUST CAUSE. The importance of timeliness is illustrated by the airlifted resupply of Israel during the 1973 Arab-Israeli War. With reduced forward bases, aerial tankers are increasingly important assets, not only for Air Force operations, but also for those of sister services and allied air operations. Air Force aerial refueling capabilities during OPERATION EARNEST WILL (the Tanker War in the Persian Gulf) permitted the Navy carriers to stand off farther from potential threats; and during OPERATION JUST CAUSE they accelerated the airlift by reducing or eliminating transport refueling times on the ground at their destinations. CONTROL THE HIGH GROUND—SPACE & C3I SYSTEMS Technology has made air the high ground over the last 75 years; in the future, it will increasingly be space. Space technology provides for global knowledge and situational awareness. Space systems are vulnerable to only the most sophisticated threats; and even those vulnerabilities are declining with the changing relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union. The reliability, endurance, survivability, and autonomy of space systems make them cost-effective for many warfighting capabilities. We need to insure our access to space with space launching capabilities, to deny space to our adversaries with anti-satellite capabilities, and achieve wide area surveillance capabilities for support of our global military operations. The Air Force is well postured to provide, as it has in the past, most of DoD's space systems. Airborne surveillance and communications capabilities, such as AW ACS and JSTARS, complement our space capabilities for the battle commander. BUILDING U.S. INFLUENCE: STRENGTHENING SECURITY PARTNERS & RELATIONSHIPS The Air Force is well postured to contribute to security assistance by supporting the operations and supplying the equipment need