to the AAF aspirations for institutional independence, then within sight. LeMay and his operations analysts, although mostly concerned with making the new bombers more effec­ tive, may have prevented a failure involving costs and expectations that could have undone the Air Force's postwar bid for institutional independence. The Slippery Slope LeMay's bombing of Japan in 1945 was no longer distinguishable in either its means or ends from that of "Bomber" (or "Butcher") Harris' bombing of German cities. Freeman Dyson describes his personal journey on the slippery slope to city bombing and faults the flawed, but persistent, doctrine of strategic bombing: The last spring of the war was the most desolate. Even after Dresden, through March and April of 1945, the bombing of cities continued.... I began to look backward and to ask myself how it had happened that I let myself become involved in this crazy game of murder. Since the beginning of the war, I had been retreating step by step from one moral position to another, until at the end I had no moral position at all. At the beginning of the war, I believed fiercely in the brotherhood of man.. .and was morally opposed to all violence. After a year of war, I retreated, and said, Unfortunately, nonviolent resistance against Hitler is impracticable, but I am still morally opposed to bombing. A couple of years later, I said, Unfortunately, it seems that bombing is necessary in order to win the war, and so I am willing to go to work for Bomber Command, but I am still morally opposed to bombing cities indiscriminately. After I arrived at Bomber Command, I said, Unfortunately, it turns out that we are, after all, bombing cities indiscriminately, but this is morally justified, as it is helping to win the war. A year later, I said, Unfortunately, it seems that our bombing is not really helping to win the war, but at least I am morally justified in working to save the lives of the bomber crews. In the last spring of the war, I could