d States entered the Vietnam War and the bombing of North Vietnam began. American air power doctrine was found to be bankrupt in Vietnam because its underlying assumptions were untrue in that situation. Strategic bombing doctrine assumed that all U.S. wars would be unlimited wars fought to destroy the enemy and that America's enemies would be modern, industrialized states. Both assumptions were crucial to strategic bombing doctrine. They were reasonable and valid assumptions in the 1920s and 1930s, but invalid in the 1960s in the age of limited warfare in the third world. The results were frustration, ineffective bombing, wasted blood and treasure, and eventually the renaming of Saigon to Ho Chi Minh City.16 The deterrence theory that had replaced air power theory as the guiding light for SAC did little to help the fading core of the institutional Air Force. Since the beginning of the nuclear age, the S AC-dominated Air Force had single- mindedly promoted the strategic bomber for one exclusive purpose—to penetrate and attack the Soviet Union in a nuclear conflict. During the Korean and Vietnam wars, the Air Force resented using its prized strategic bombers in traditional,  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 211 --- 188 The Icarus Syndrome nonnuclear combat, and more demeaning yet, in tactical roles supporting ground troops.17 The stage was now set for an overturning of the Air Force which had steadily evolved over four decades following World War I: • The stature of the bomber pilots and SAC as the owners and core of the Air Force would decline. • The fighter pilots would now take over the institutional leadership. • The most prized capabilities of senior officers would shift from institution building to program management, particularly for the aircraft acquisition programs. • The devotion of airmen would turn from their missions of institutional independence and the demonstration of air power to their own careers and aircraft. The impetus within the Air Force fo