eart of the enemy. The purpose of the Air Force increasingly became one of continuing to acquire the systems of each faction—a new bomber, a new fighter, a new transport, and a new missile. Each of these acquisition efforts became a battle of monumental consequences for each faction of the Air Force because that is what each faction came to be about. During periods of expanding resources and opportunities, the delete­ rious effects of this fractionation or "stovepiping" on the Air Force tended to be suppressed from view. There was an anesthetic quality to the growing budgets since each faction could pursue its pet programs. But the losses became apparent as budgets eroded and cuts had to be made everywhere including in people and in things. With the ascendancy of TAC over SAC to the leadership of the Air Force, the application of the theory of air power to war came increasingly from the Army and its "AirLand" battle doctrine. Air power theory had now devolved into deterrence theory, AirLand battle doctrine, and the dictum of air supremacy. The first had to be shared with the civilian strategists and the Navy, the second yielded the initiative to the Army, and the third was of interest only to the aviators. The Rise of Occupationalism Without the commitment to mission provided by air power theory, the commitment of the airmen increasingly reverted back to what it had been before air power theory—a love of flying and flying machines, a narcissistic indulgence that enjoyed little constituency in the public which would have to support an increasingly expensive hobby. In part because of the apparent carryover of their skills to civilian work, airmen could more easily look upon wartime service as part of a career or profession rather than as a duty in which fighting itself was the essence. They differed sharply from other servicemen in their higher sense of satisfaction with the particular jobs and tasks they performed. To a considerable degree, their mentality was occupa