rom technical devices and experiments, and fliers have been the major instigators and beneficiaries of technological advances in everything from structural materials to microelectronics. If human flight is a wondrous gift of technology, and if technology poses the only limits on the freedoms of that gift, then it is to be expected that the fountain of technology will be worshipped by military fliers and the Air Force. This is the catechism: If the Air Force is to have a future of expanding horizons, it will come only from understanding, nurturing, and applying technology. There is a circle of faith here: If the Air Force fosters technology, then that inexhaustible fountain of technology will 155  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 179 --- 156 The Icarus Syndrome ensure an open-ended future for flight; which, in turn, will ensure the future of the Air Force. The critical element, of course, is the continued expansion of flight-related technologies, which is at least arguable as the air and space technologies mature. One evidence of a slowing in the expansion of the aeronautical technologies is the growing lifetimes of aircraft designs before their obsolescence. The most successful aircraft designs have always had useful lifetimes about equal to the time span between Kittyhawk (1903) and the year of their design. An airplane design ten years after the Wright Brother's original flyer might expect, at the best, a ten year life; but a good design today, might last for the better part of a century. That rule of thumb can be applied across 90 years of aviation during which successful airplane designs have eventually succumbed to techno­ logical obsolescence, such as the Curtiss Jenny, Douglas DC-3, and the Boeing 707. The best military aircraft designs—such as the DeHaviland DH4, Chance Vought F4U Corsair, McDonnell F4 Phantom, and Boeing B-52 Stratofortress—have all had somewhat shorter useful lives, but have followed the same trend. This continuing extension of useful