d DH4, Chance Vought F4U Corsair, McDonnell F4 Phantom, and Boeing B-52 Stratofortress—have all had somewhat shorter useful lives, but have followed the same trend. This continuing extension of useful lifetimes implies that technolog­ ical obsolescence in aircraft is slowing. Although that might be wel­ comed by those paying the bills for aircraft, it is not by those devoted to designing and building new ones, for they have to search harder for reasons—the threat of competition or technology—to replace the exist­ ing aircraft. For the military airmen, with an expectation of the joys of a new machine rooted in a view of aviation's past, the future is likely to be more frustrating than rewarding. The Air Force has occasionally argued for its needs in terms of the number of wings of bombers or fighters needed or desired.3 But the Air Force's appetite for newer and more technologically advanced aircraft, with their accompanying higher cost, has tempered its demands when the choice came to more of the old or fewer of the new. For the Air Force, aerodynamic performance and technological quality of its aircraft have always been of higher priority than the number. Thus, in measuring the adequacy of its forces, the Air Force is likely to speak first of the kind or quality of its aircraft (speed, altitude, maneuverability, range, armament, or carrying capacity) before their quantity. This emphasis on quality over quantity is easily observed: The Air Force does not lament the size of its bomber force so much as it does the  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 180 --- The Technology Janus 157 age of its B-52s. It considers the necessity of fathers and sons' flying the same bomber as a national disgrace. The trade of larger quantities of arguably less capable F-16s for F-15s was never attractive to the Air Force. When confronted with having a mix of the new B-l bomber and an even newer B-2, the Air Force favored more B-2s.4 The Air Force concern about the adequacy of its force