urposes of crash investigations are longer and broader than this more recent civil phenomenon. Investigations are aimed most fundamentally towards a search for safety, for correctives—for ways to prevent a similar crash from occurring again. The fundamental purpose of investigating accidents under these Regulations shall be to determine the circumstances and causes of the accident with a view to the preservation of life and the avoidance of accidents in the future; it is not the purpose to apportion blame or liability.2 Is there something that needs to be changed to prevent a similar crash? Often, there is. We learn that an airplane should not be flown under 193  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 217 --- 194 The Icarus Syndrome certain weather conditions, that maintenance procedures should be changed, or that a certain part needs to be redesigned against failure. Pilots frequently complain that too many crash investigations end up with the finger pointed at them. They think "pilot error" is too often an easy cause for crash investigators to hang on the hapless (and often deceased) pilot when the evidence for other potential causes is not readily apparent. They would urge the investigators to look harder and to consider more possibilities. Indeed, that is the dominant theme in the 1964 film, Fate is the Hunter? The problem has also been explicitly addressed in the law to give some protection to airmen and their families against the.. .all too frequent findings of "pilot error" as the cause of an accident [which has] been abused in recent years.. .in the civil proceedings which follow aircraft accidents [by] persons who may tend to forget that it is not the purpose of accident investigation to apportion blame or liability.4 On the other hand, pilots bear such broad authority, responsibility, and risk for their aircraft and its safe flight that we should see it as remarkable that so many causes for crashes can be found elsewhere. Crash investigations are also frequ