ccess and unique vantage point. Hence, the control and exploitation of that medium, more than any other, will offer the widest range of military options and the highest degree of military power. Will the aerospace continuum really be the dominant military medi­ um? After all, most of the world's commerce, including military logis­ tics, moves by sea, and nothing implies that will drastically change in the foreseeable future. But the dominant medium for the military, is not necessarily the dominant medium for commerce, just as the dominant terrain for the soldier may be the high ground rather than the valley floor where the commerce or fertile field is found. For the military, the preferred medium will be the one that affords the most favorable access and vantage point for bringing military power to bear in all of its pertinent forms. In a world where access to other points on the surface may be increasingly jeopardized by intervening regions of disorder or hostility, the third dimension may be the most confident, secure, and rapid means for access. In a world of widespread political disorder and conflict, the third dimension may also be the most confident and secure vantage point for observing and then discriminatingly applying military power. Thus, even as the relative powers of the nation-states decline, there is more rather than less to suggest that air power has become the military instrument of choice for coping with the new disorder of a world undergoing revolutionary change. I began this manuscript with praise for theory and now would end it with a different kind of praise: Theory does not have to be absolutely correct or timeless to serve human enterprise well. Theory is seldom completely correct or immune to the new knowledge that time brings. But theory provides a basis for directed action that can benefit human enterprise even though it is not quite correct or permanent. The fields of science and technology are defined by such less-than-perfect theories a