ken up (a  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 230 --- Crash Analysis 207 mission), to conceive what can and ought to be (a vision), and to plan the relationships among means and ends (a strategy). Yet these four concepts are markedly different intellectual tools: Theory is an explanation. Mission is a purpose. Vision is a dream. Strategy is a scheme. Air power has been all these things, separately and together, throughout the history of the idea. It will be useful to keep these four concepts distinguished from one another as we try to analyze what has happened to the idea of air power and what must be done if it is to be redefined and renewed. Air power started out as a theory, an explanation of how to avoid repeating the nightmare of World War I. It turned into a mission when the clouds of World War II gathered and the theory was converted into the reality of air power. It became a vision for an independent institution even as the mission was undertaken. And, it became a strategy for coping with the stalemate of the Cold War. As originally conceived, air power was a theory composed of the following three axioms: 1. Air power can be employed decisively in war by striking at the heart of the enemy. 2. To use air power decisively, command of the air (i.e., air supremacy or superiority) is a prerequisite. 3. To gain command of the air and to use air power decisively in war, air power must be centrally and independently controlled. Only the first of these axioms was really disputed at the time the theory was first advanced; if one accepted it, the others followed. All this was unproven theory when the ideas were first developed and articulated during the two decades between the world wars. When the theory had gained enough acceptance to be put into practice, air power theory turned into a mission to forge and employ the air forces that could seize command of the air and be wielded decisively as an independent instrument in war. Whether or not the theory was proven du