as well asked, "How did we lose our bearings?" Metaphors are attractive in circumstances such as these because it is difficult to name precisely what is missing or even to prove that anything is missing. If there is a loss of something, is the loss just in the sense of aim or direction, as provided by a compass? Or, is the disorientation greater and more urgent, such as with the loss of a basic flight control instrument? The risks are quite different. Without a compass, one might lose the way, fail to find the objective, or not reach the destination. Without a basic flight control instrument, such as a turn-and-bank indicator, the pilot risks losing control of the airplane and crashing. 27  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 51 --- 28 The Icarus Syndrome Not everyone, of course, in or out of the Air Force, perceives that the institution is in trouble. For some, the instruments appear to be about normal, the bubble is in sight, and nothing more than a little trimming of the controls is needed. For others, the flight is very bumpy right now, sometimes even disorienting, but it is only because of the weather outside. Nothing is intrinsically wrong with the institution; these are rough times, but they, like the weather, will pass if the Air Force stays steady on its course. There are too many to ignore, however, who are genuinely concerned about what is happening to the Air Force, as an institution and from within. Their concerns have to do with the vision of the institution, its sense of identity and purpose, its values, and the dedications and loyalties of its personnel. These concerns imply that something intangible has changed within the Air Force, that the change is unfavorable, and that it is affecting the institution's ability to cope effectively with an adverse external environment. That adverse external environment is more than declining resources; it is also declining public appreciation for what the Air Force offers the nation besides pleas for more of its