t wings and soared into the sky with Icarus close behind.' Precision Daylight Bombardment The era of air power prophets—Trenchard, Douhet, and Mitchell— and the time of their prophesy was ending. The theory and its conversion into reality would now pass into the hands of their apostles—Harris in Britain; Andrews, Eaker, Spaatz, and Arnold in America—as the first harbingers of another world war appeared in the form of the fascist adventures in Ethiopia, Manchuria, China, and Spain. The apostles had been given a well-formed theory of air power and a growing body of doctrine, but not the physical implements necessary to exercise either. The skeptics of the theory, both in Britain and America, were now becoming the minority. What had to be sold was not the theory, but the 83  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 107 --- 84 The Icarus Syndrome physical means to execute air power according to the theory. The phys­ ical implements were the design, development, and procurement of the airplanes and trained crews needed to demonstrate the increasingly accepted promises of air power. In America, Andrews and Arnold used air power theory as their compass to develop the means and form of Army aviation as World War II loomed. They were the institutional logisticians, mostly concerned with acquiring the airplanes and organizing the infrastructures that would allow the theory of air power finally to be expressed. Air power theory had now moved off into the hands of tacticians who had to convert theory to practice if the strategic hopes and dreams of the prophets were to come true. In the hands of these tacticians, a particular concept of strategic bombardment was evolving: In their own institutions, most of all at the Air Corps Tactical School in Alabama, Air Corps officers were free to construct their own curriculum and dogma. The leisurely pace of life in the peacetime army gave them plenty of time to do so. By the 1930s, both the airmen and their institutions were also mature en