pleasant memories of organizational subordination. In a more concrete sense, what was tactical was not strategic; thus, resources devoted to tactical aviation directly depleted those available for USAF's strategic (read: "independent") missions. "Theater airpower" gave [the Tactical Air Command] the rhetorical flexibility necessary to create for itself a more "strategic" mission. In so doing, it hoped to become on a regional or theater level what SAC was on the global level: no longer a residual appendage.. .but an integral part of the independent, war-winning USAF.15 The war in Vietnam provided TAC the opportunity to apply its regional or theater air power in "strategic" missions. Unfortunately, it was under circumstances where the assumptions underlying strategic bombing doctrine did not apply to the new realities of limited war in the third world: [D]octrine can become irrelevant if the assumptions that support it are not frequently reexamined for their continuing validity. The development of U.S. air power doctrine provides a pertinent example. Based on the ideas of Gen. William "Billy" Mitchell and further developed at the Air Corps Tactical School by Mitchell's proteges, the Army Air Forces went into World War II with a doctrine based on the belief that strategic bombing would (and should) be decisive in war. The World War II experience and the availability of nuclear weapons and long range aircraft in the postwar era further ingrained this notion. Military budgets, force structures, equipment procurement, and training were all based on the central doctrinal belief in the deterrent and warfighting decisiveness of strategic bombardment. Even the tactical air forces became ministrategic forces in the late 1950s and early 1960s. The crisis came in 1965 when the United States entered the Vietnam War and the bombing of North Vietnam began. American air power doctrine was found to be bankrupt in Vietnam because its underlying assumptions were untrue in that situatio