t bound the Air Force together and inspired its direction? Those are the questions pursued here. The thesis that has emerged is that • air power theory was a crucial element in the evolution and success of the Air Force as an independent military institution; but • the subsequent abandonment of air power theory in the face of competitive means (missiles and space) and ends (deterrence theory) cast the Air Force adrift from precisely those commitments that had propelled it to its institutional apogee in the 1950s. Supporting that thesis is the burden of the analysis presented in the following two dozen chapters. But a brief explanation of how the original enterprise was transformed from a simple essay to an analysis of an institution is appropriate here, if only to reveal what motivated those who instigated and executed the analysis. xiii  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 15 --- xiv The Icarus Syndrome Genesis At the end of 1990, my colleague Ted Warner approached me about my interest in fulfilling a request he had from the Air University located at Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama. The Air Command and Staff College (ACSC) wanted an essay that would remind incoming students of the obligations of the profession of arms, their heritage in history, and where those obligations might carry them with the future of the Air Force. Ted knew my interests in military history, values, and speculation about the future; he didn't have to bait the hook. In the early months of 1991, through a series of phone conversations with Major John Loucks and Colonel Rod Payne of ACSC, I assembled a terms of reference and an outline for the essay, which they could take to their commandant, then Brigadier General Phillip Ford, for approval. When we seemed to have a meeting of minds, I made plans to visit the Air University (AU) and try out some of my ideas in the form of a briefing, before putting them to paper. My briefing, in March 1991, was deliberately designed to provoke. I wanted to