ever attractive to the Air Force. When confronted with having a mix of the new B-l bomber and an even newer B-2, the Air Force favored more B-2s.4 The Air Force concern about the adequacy of its forces becomes acute only if their technical superiority is threatened. New aircraft develop­ ments by other nations are of much greater concern if they reflect new flight envelopes than if they are being produced in large quantities; to be outnumbered may be tolerable, but to be outflown is not. The way to command the American flier' s attention is to confront him with a superior machine; that has not happened very often or for very long in the relatively short history of aviation. Hap Arnold's Bug The Air Force' s love of technology is the result of the technological era that crested around 1950 and dominated the decades on each side of that peak.5 It goes back to the beginning of military aviation; and it transcends manned aircraft—at least for some of the most far-sighted aviators. Hap Arnold provides the following description of his fascinating quest for unmanned aircraft as missiles. What makes it fascinating and worth reproducing here at length is how it reveals Arnold's love for technology and his devotion to the ends of air power theory even over its traditional means of manned aircraft. Arnold's recollection begins with the advent of the German V-l, a pulsejet powered cruise missile: [E]xactly one week after Eisenhower's troops hit the Normandy beaches on D-Day, the world was horrified by the sudden appearance over London of the first V-l's, the gruesome pilotless buzz bombs. A number of people in this country, including Ket,6 were not surprised, for he and our own Air Force had fathered, if not invented, this weapon back in 1917. Early in the fall of that year, working with the Sperry Company, and with Ket's Delco firm, we had developed—not merely experimented with, but successfully tested—two pilotless planes. One was a full-sized airplane, but equipped with comp