the B-52 ranks were swelling, the Air Force was embarked on the development of the B-70, its triple-sonic successor. Air Force officers began referring to the still-secret new airplane as their "manned missile." General Thomas S. Power, commander of the Strategic Air Command, called it "the Savior." These nicknames had a special significance. Both the Soviet Union and the United States were developing their first ICBMS. Missiles were the future, but the bomber represented the heart of the Air Force's guiding military doctrine, the overriding importance of strategic air power. General Power and his fellow officers hoped that the B-70 would "save" bombers from being made obsolete by the missile.12 Somewhere during this time, the institutional Air Force was shifting its compass from a guiding theory of air power to a devotion to the symbols or means of airpower—to the airplanes themselves. We have this chilling description of General White pleading his case for the B-70 to President Eisenhower: Like an attorney making his final emotional plea for a client facing the gallows, White asked the President for the B-70, based not on its military value but on its importance to the institution to which he had devoted his life. "There is a question," he implored, "of what is to be the future of the Air Force and of flying. This shift [to missiles] has a great impingement on morale. There is no follow- on aircraft to the fighter and no new opportunity for Air Force personnel."13 The golden age of air power theory had begun its slow decline.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 175 --- 152 The Icarus Syndrome Notes 1. Gen. Chuck Yeager and Leo Janus, Y'eager: An Autobiography (New York: Bantam Books, 1985), 175. 2. My colleague, Duane Deal, reminds me that LeMay was more than an operator of bombers. As Commander in Chief of the USAFE (American Air Forces in Europe), LeMay directed the beginning and then the operational control of the Berlin Airlift in 1948. 3. Puryear, Stars in