analytic techniques. When Enthoven testified before Congress, he overwhelmed the generals with charts and graphs showing that "the B-70 would add minimal extra firepower at huge cost." Still, the military rejected the notion that a computer- generated "truth" provided better answers than the judgment and experience of men who had actually fought a war. "I am profoundly apprehensive of the pipe-smoking, tree-full-of-owls type of so- called professional defense intellectuals," said General Thomas D. White, who had just retired as Air Force chief of staff. "I don't believe a lot of these often overconfident, sometimes arrogant young professors, mathematicians, and other theorists have sufficient worldliness or motivation to stand up to the kind of enemy we face." General LeMay shared White's contempt for the whiz kids and for McNamara. He believed the civilians had usurped the proper role and expertise of the military. In LeMay's analogy, McNamara was a reckless amateur who ran the Defense Department like "a hospital administrator who tried to practice brain surgery." Exasperated by McNamara's iron grip on Air Force programs, LeMay would ask friends: "Would things be much worse if Khrushchev were secretary of defense?"7 But much of the Air Force' s frustration stemmed from the fact that they no longer argued their cause in terms of a theory with ends but from their love of traditional means. They had no countertheory to combat their antagonists as they had in the 1930s and 1940s. The ownership of theory had shifted to the whiz kids who called it deterrence theory, not air power or even aerospace power theory. Focusing on Means The bureaucratic battles for the Air Force now became defensive actions about means: how to get the next manned bomber and how to keep the missiles from taking over. In the late 1950s, it was Curtis LeMay, promoted to Air Force vice chief of staff under General Thomas White, who led the Air Force's fight for the new B-70  File: --- builder_icarus