ve of this analysis. Before I undertook this analysis, Andrews was my Air Force hero, not Arnold or Mitchell. I saw Arnold as a skilled politician and bureaucrat, 97  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 121 --- 98 The Icarus Syndrome Mitchell as a flaming evangelist; but I associated Andrews with that now- famous photograph of B-17s making their formation pass over the Italian liner REX, climaxing their daring search far out to sea in bad weather. There was a man who knew how to prove his point! No politician or evangelist there! But as my colleagues combed through the historical literature for snippets that might shed light on the thesis of this manuscript, Arnold came up again and again. Yes, he was a politician and bureaucrat, but so much more. He was an extraordinary organizer of air power in both world wars. He was a visionary of extraordinary breadth and depth. He cared deeply about people; he was an egalitarian, not an elitist about pilots. And, most importantly for the Air Force as an institution, he was utterly devoted—above all things, even his own life—to the building of an institution committed to ideals, to a vision, and to the theory of air power. Because of Arnold's stature on these important aspects, I think it appropriate to pause in this historical development of the Air Force and air power theory to examine Arnold and his thinking as a separate historical subject. As you read about Arnold's deeds and words, I would ask you to think about what he might say and do under the present circumstances. He might have been a leader for this season as well as his own. Father of the Air Force Edgar Puryear eloquently summarizes the Arnold that I have come to respect as the threads of this analysis were being pulled through the historical evolutions of air power theory and the institutional Air Force: If the Air Force were a church, Arnold would be its founder, its Saint Paul. If it were a country, Arnold would be its father, its George Washington or Simon B