rever American vital interests were threatened by communist aggression. The new Republican president backed up his threat by building a massive bomber force that indeed could destroy the Soviet Union or China with little danger of nuclear retaliation against the United States. In warfare, the president warned, nuclear weapons would now be used "just exactly as you would use a bullet."8 General Thomas D. White provided the institutional leadership as the Air Force tried to adapt to Eisenhower's "new look" and yet ensure its own future. It was a time of great change in the Air Force environment- guided missiles were challenging airplanes as competitors (ballistic, cruise, and standoff missiles) and as adversaries (surface-to-air and air- to-air missiles); space was rapidly opening as a new and competitive medium to the air (for reconnaissance and surveillance, perhaps even for bombardment). General White had to pick his way through a minefield of overlapping political, technical, and institutional issues: The Air Force needed a leader like General White, particularly at that point in its history. When the Korean War was over then, there was needed at the helm a man who understood how to work successfully in Washington within the executive branch and within Congress. General White was eminently well qualified to do that. In addition, the Air Force was sort of trying to find its way.... White's grasp of overall strategy and his ability to sort of look out beyond today's world and see what might be important in the future is what really set him apart. He believed in the space program, and he did more than most men of his time to assure that the Air Force had a special kind of mission.9 Unfortunately, General White may have been more what the Air Force wanted at the time as a leader than what the institution really needed at that point in its history. Giving the airmen the airplanes and missions they wanted may have been less important than moving the theoretical foundati