e of simple inertia or because the Air Force belongs to the combat pilots? If it is the former, then the institution is only vulnerable to being upset by unexpected events—as the Navy was by Pearl Harbor. But if it is the latter, then the institution will reap the whirlwind, for its real mission is not service to the nation, but to service one of its factions. The Roots of Theory Ultimately, the Air Force mission and vision must stand on a theory of air power—an explanation of how air power works and why it is important to those who must support it. The original theory of air power was about more than airplanes and air forces; it was every bit as much about the way the world and war were widely expected to work in the future. Embedded in the original air power theory were vivid images of a war just past, the prospects for another in the future, and of the rapidly developing transportation technologies. The theory explained how the aviation technologies might be exploited to avoid replaying the past war in the future. The theory was motivated and rationalized on a perspective of the future. If air power theory is to be redefined, it must also be motivated and rationalized from some perspective of the future. That is why the next two chapters are devoted to a view of the future—a view of (1) how the world is coming to work and (2) the future nature of conflicts. Although the next two chapters stray far from air power theory, they are not a diversion; they  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 254 --- Making Painful Choices 231 provide an explicit example of the kind of conceptual foundations necessary for air power to be constructively redefined. To give this view of the future both force and integrity, I have had to draw upon what I see ahead, not what others may see or hope to see. Whether my view of the future is correct or incorrect will be less pertinent than demonstrating how important such perspectives of the future can be in reformulating air power theory. My