n the current amalgam of the Air Force? • If the Air Force must change or be changed to arrive at an effective vision, which changes would be least costly to the institution?  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 245 --- 222 The Icarus Syndrome Obviously, an affirmative answer to the first question has eluded many for some time, leading others to suggest that some surgery—in the divestiture of means or ends—may be necessary to bring coherence and integrity back to the Air Force as an organization. I am not convinced that such surgery is necessary; but the alternatives need to be explored, even if only to look into the abyss before redoubling efforts to find an effective vision within the current amalgam. Is Triage Required? If the Air Force had to relinquish one or more of its present missions or capabilities, what would they be and in what order of their priority? To ask that question of the Air Force would be much like asking a mother which of her children should be thrown to the wolves. Others, outside the institution are better able to suggest the answers—and have done so. Here are two missions that have been suggested for divestiture, along with their accompanying reasons: 1. Close air support. The Air Force has seldom embraced the mission with great enthusiasm; and the Army has usually been uneasy about the dependability and availability of close air support when needed. The mission is logically inconsistent with the Navy and the Marines since they both provide their own air support for their surface forces. The army should be permitted to provide its own air support, without the artificial restriction to rotary wing aircraft. In giving up that mission, the Air Force would not be denied an opportunity to contribute additional support to engaged Army forces, anymore that it is presently denied from providing additional support to Navy or Marine forces, provided the air commander has suitable forces that can be so assigned. 2. Airlift for surface forces. Althou