e driven as much by privately held values as by the ambiguous evidence.4 However both sides in this controversy were calling for more scientific tests and analyses. What they were able to do with the existing evidence strongly suggested that they could assimilate any new data and still retain their views. More scientific evidence might have swayed some of those whose views were not so highly polarized, but I am not even certain of that modest benefit.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 43 --- 20 The Icarus Syndrome Alternative Views Applying that lesson to the issues raised in A View of the Air Force Today, I am sure there is some polarization of views within the Air Force about the nature and severity of the institution's problems: • Some believe that the Air Force is not facing any extraordinary institutional problems beyond those faced by the other services at this time. These are tough budgetary times for the entire American military. The American culture has changed; and the attitudes and values of those in the Air Force will naturally reflect those changes. Young people have always expressed concern (griped or groused) about their institution and its leadership. The problem, if there is one, is not significant or unique within the Air Force. • Some believe that the Air Force, as an institution, is in trouble and needs to find and take corrective actions to ensure its future viability. The Air Force is losing its competitiveness, its principles, and its sense of direction. Many of the nation's leaders may no longer understand or appreciate the relationships between air power and U.S. national security.5 Air Force people are increasingly favoring their own careers and interests over that of the Air Force mission or institution. These problems are more severe in the Air Force than in the other services; and in these tough times, the Air Force could be severely hurt. Although I have not conducted anything near 100 interviews with Air Force officers on this sub