eory turned into a mission to forge and employ the air forces that could seize command of the air and be wielded decisively as an independent instrument in war. Whether or not the theory was proven during the course of World War II—an argument that can easily be instigated and sustained even today—the arguments about its validity became academic to the American public with the advent of the atomic bomb.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 231 --- 208 The Icarus Syndrome If the atomic bomb made many traditional concepts of war seem archaic, it made strategic bombardment appear both farsighted and final. The Army Air Forces aviators—dominated by the bomber pilots—could declare the mission a success, the theory validated, and then turn the same ideas into a vision of an independent institution. The vision was nothing less than the ultimate expression of the third axiom of airpower theory— the vesting of air power in an independent military service. The vision took credibility from the first two axioms—decisiveness in war (now validated beyond argument by the possession of atomic bombs) and command of the air which had been proven feasible in the contested skies over Germany and Japan. And the vision finally became a reality in the newly created Air Force. The vision was that an intrepid band of aviators would control the decisive weapons of war—the airplane and the atomic bomb—in a force that would eclipse all other military forces in importance, size, funding, and esteem. As a vision, it contained the two essential ingredients—a unique sense of identity and a shared sense of purpose. The unique identity was vested in what had always been something of an exclusive club—the intrepid band of aviators, particularly military aviators. The shared sense of purpose was to wield the most powerful military instruments ever fashioned. With the vision a reality, air power theory became the basis for the dominant strategy in the Cold War. The means were long-range bombers coupl