der, The Masks of War: American Military Styles in Strategy and Analysis (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1989), 82. 5. See Chapter 23 of this analysis. 6. One of the authors of the original has reviewed the abstract to ensure its fairness as to content and tone. 7. The reference to mythology is poignant, given the title of this analysis. 8. Richard Hallion, Reaching Globally, Reaching Powerfully: The United States Air Force in the Gulf War, A Report (Washington D.C.: Department of the Air Force, September 1991), 52, with the quotation referenced to "Meet the Press," CBS News, 14 April 1991. 9. See, for example, David H. Hackworth, "Amputation, Not Pedicure," Newsweek, 9 December 1991, 35. 10. General Merrill McPeak, Air Force chief of staff, put it this way: "Let's face it. We never came under significant attack. We really don't know whether the command structure was really tough enough, durable enough, to really survive really difficult combat conditions...." Those observations are quoted by Tony Capaccio in "USAF Chief Pans War's Command Chain," Defense Week, vol. 12, no. 49, 2 December 1991, 1. 11. Some of the facilities were brand new. There were instances where the arriving American personnel found themselves unwrapping new equipment they found in place before they could put the facilities into operation for the first time. 12. One Air Force general told me that the air campaign planning was a distressingly close thing: At the very beginning of Operation Desert Shield, the Tactical Air Command was prepared to wait on the theater ground commander to define his ground plan so they could, in turn, develop their corresponding plans for his air support. At the same time, the Strategic Air Command was prepared to carpet (and obliterate) any designated area of Iraq (or Kuwait) with bombs. That was pretty much the extent of the tactical and strategic thinking in the principal combat commands of the Air Force. Fortunately, we had the time so that such reflex