r power. In the wake of Operation Desert Storm, some air power advocates have felt vindicated in their long-disputed claim of decisiveness, only to find that the dispute has not ended. Air power may have finally revealed and proven itself, not as independently decisive in all wars, but as definitive in shaping most conflicts, decisive in some, and therefore demanding independent conception and use. The unqualified claim of decisiveness for air power has always been conten­ tious and created headwinds. However much the claim may have helped to rally the early advocates and supporters of military aviation, history has overridden their theory and conjecture with more tangible and credible counter claims. It is enough that air power can be decisive in some conflicts—most accept that it would be decisive in an all-out thermonuclear war—and to be definitive in most. Whether or not air power was decisive in World War II can still be disputed;5 but it certainly defined the remainder of the war on land and sea. In Korea and Vietnam, it is generally accepted that air power was not decisive; but there are some air power advocates who would go on to argue that it could have been if it had been employed properly—that the problem was with the political leaderships, in their understanding of how  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 288 --- Mission Desiderata 265 to use air power decisively. The political leaderships involved might well respond that the decisive use of air power may involve a price that the nation should not have to pay—in the prospects of too much "collateral damage" to innocent civilians or in the prospects for a much wider and violent war. However the debates over the employment of air power in the Korean and Vietnam wars may be resolved, air power did define the nature of the land wars that were fought there; air power limited the enemy's means and therefore the pace of those conflicts. In Operation Desert Storm, air power dominated the entire conflict and de