there will be a strong tendency to preserve those forces which have dominated the mission spectrum in the past rather than those which might dominate in the future. To be explicit, there will be a natural tendency to preserve the fighter and bomber forces at the expense of the supporting forces, such as those for transport, communications, surveillance, rescue, and so forth. This tension between institutional proclivities and perceptions of the future illustrates the importance of the latter to the evolution of air power theory. Nothing in the perception of the future security environment presented here suggests a lessened importance for air power. It does, however, suggest a shifting balance between the projection of force and infrastruc­ ture in air power in the future, just as it has been steadily shifting in the past. Jeffrey Record puts the imperative this way: If present and anticipated developments portend neither the demise of manned aircraft nor a diminution in air power's contribution to U.S. security, they do portend significant alterations in the character of U.S. air power as we have come to know it since 1945—at least if air power is to remain a major and effective component of American military power as a whole.10 The positive resolution of that last conditional phrase is the burden of the chapters which follow. Notes 1. Samuel P. Huntington, "National Policy and the Transoceanic Navy," U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings, vol. 80, no. 5, (May 1954): 483. 2. This chapter draws heavily from Builder and Bankes, The Etiology of European Change. A more complete development of these ideas can be found in Builder, "Is It a Transition or a Revolution?"  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 280 --- The New Security Environment 257 3. For a discussion of our need to understand how the information revolution will impact different societies, see Carl H. Builder and Steven C. Bankes, Artificial Societies: A Proposal for Basic Research into the Societal Implications