nged the nature of warfare. If the bomber were to survive, its advocates would have to formulate new reasons for its existence.14 TAC Takes Over The most consequential effect of the fractionation of the Air Force after the abandonment of air power theory was the rise of the fighter pilots who were so long suppressed under that theory. Prior to Vietnam, TAC had sought to escape SAC domination by emulating SAC s global mission on a regional or theater basis: Strategic bombing is not mere doctrine to the United States Air Force; it is its lifeblood and provides its entire raison d'etre. Strategic bombing is as central to the identity of the Air Force as the New Testament is to the Catholic Church. Without the Gospels, there would be no pope; and without strategic bombing, there would be no Air Force. Like the Church, the Air Force has its fundamentalists—for whom salvation came on the silver wings of B-29s—and its reformers, who might not question the faith but look to expand it beyond the literal interpretation of its basic tenets. From the earliest days of airpower, the proponents of tactical aviation have had to work with and around this orthodoxy, and the limits it sets have been the single most important determinant of tactical doctrine and capabilities. [This orthodoxy was subverted by a] gradual shift away from the traditional concept of "tactical" aviation toward a new concept of "theater" airpower. One of the earliest manifestations of this shift was the redesignation of tactical aircraft from "pursuit" (passive, subordinate) to "fighter" and "attack" (positive,  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 210 --- Slow Fall from Grace 187 aggressive, independent). Among airmen, "tactical aviation" carried the rhetorical stigma of air-ground operations and conjured up unpleasant memories of organizational subordination. In a more concrete sense, what was tactical was not strategic; thus, resources devoted to tactical aviation directly depleted those available for USA