denberg's critics accused him of neglecting tactical aviation. SAC supporters dismissed these charges by pointing to Vandenberg's record before and during World War II as a member of the tactical air team. Actually, however, as Vandenberg explained, his concern was the defense of the United States, but he did not believe that air defense alone, in the narrow sense, could accomplish this. He cited the Battle of Britain and the experience of the Luftwaffe in World War II as proof that defending fighters can  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 172 --- Realization 149 stop only a relatively small percentage of attacking bombers. "When the enemy is carrying atomic bombs, every air attack can result in holocaust." Vandenberg felt that the way to counter the enemy's strategic air power was not only with interceptors but with our own strategic air power—by destroying the enemy's ability to strike at U.S. industry.6 By focusing the Air Force on strategic bombardment and, hence, deterrence of nuclear war, Vandenberg connected the Air Force mission directly to the security of the nation. This opened the door to the concept of the primacy of the Air Force to provide for national security and to compete for defense budgets. Before Vandenberg became Chief of Staff, the defense money was apportioned among the services, and the idea of a "balanced force" was one in which equal sums of money were spent by the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force. Military leaders felt that if the respective services could not receive the necessary funds in order to accomplish the mission as they saw it, then the only thing to do was to divide what money was available equally among the three services. In an unprecedented speech for the Air Force Association in Los Angeles in the fall of 1950, Vandenberg urged that the defense dollar should be distributed in accordance with the expected value to national security. Under his leadership there was a departure from the standard policy that each of the thr