me years. In this latest effort, he traces the ideas and fortunes of airpower's most influential advocates—Billy Mitchell, Hap Arnold, and others who shaped the growth and employment of our Air Force. He also xi  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 13 --- xii The Icarus Syndrome looks to the future, to the shifting nature of warfare and to the impact today's trends may have on our organization. I do not agree with all that Mr. Builder has to say in these pages. But I do believe that he has raised the right questions. Has the Air Force abandoned air power theory over the years? Have the fundamentals of air and space power changed in a world of new technologies and new challenges? Does the Air Force, as an institution, grasp these fundamen­ tals? So I commend The Icarus Syndrome to you. These issues are important. —Merrill A. McPeak 24 August 1993  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 14 --- Preface All that is written here has relatively short roots in time; but like a vine, it has traveled a long distance from where it started. It started out as an essay to remind midcareer Air Force officer-students of the fundamentals of their profession. It ended up, instead, as a call for their institution to return to its basics—to its historic devotion to air power theory. My original plan for an essay turned into an analysis of the institution that had requested it. The analysis centered on the role air power theory had played in the early development of the Air Force and the role it might still play in a host of problems that have come to plague that institution. Was air power theory more important to the Air Force than even the Air Force realized? The theory, of course, explained what air power could do and how it must be wielded to be effective; but was it also the glue that bound the Air Force together and inspired its direction? Those are the questions pursued here. The thesis that has emerged is that • air power theory was a crucial element in the evolution and succe