ogy will make one's doctrine obsolete, will replace doctrine as the determinant of the future course of the Air Force, and will become merely a convenient shibboleth endowed by advocates with greater significance than it really possesses. We must recognize that both technology and doctrine are dynamic processes, always advancing or receding, and are necessarily adaptive to change lest they stagnate and lose relevance. Neither is independent of the other; rather, each generates a synergistic impulse that encourages and strengthens the other.. ..13  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 185 --- 162 The Icarus Syndrome Hallion provides some historical examples: Generally speaking, the technology tail has wagged the Air Force dog. This is not necessarily a bad thing, but it does require some clarification. Since technology and doctrine are inherently dynamic, the rapid expansion of technology should trigger an anticipatory, proactive impulse within the doctrine community so that doctrine can be established to guide the application of high technology for suitable Air Force missions. Too often this has not taken place. Tying technology too closely to existing doctrine and philosophy immediately after World War II led to the creation of classes of straight wing aircraft, ironically blending advanced turbojet propulsion with late-1930s aerodynamics. These were awkward vehicles rendered quickly obsolete by the swept-wing transonic designs of the late 1940s. On the other hand, when technology was freed from such doctrinal constraints but while doctrine itself did not keep pace with technological development, the result tended to be wildly fanciful ideas perhaps best typified by the atomic airplane program of the 1950s or the aerospace plane program of the 1960s.14 Technology not only directly threatens doctrine, but it can also indirectly threaten force structure. The only thing certain about the current pell-mell pace of technology in conventional air warfare is its spiralin