f people that we may call "the air-going people" as distinguished from the "land-going people" and the "sea-going people." The air-going people have a spirit, language and customs of their own. These are just as different from those on the ground as those of seamen are from those of land men. In fact, they are much more so because our sea-going and land-going communities have been with us from the inception of time and everybody knows something about them, whereas the air- going people form such a new class that only those engaged in the actual development and the younger generation appreciate what it means.22 The military aviators could set themselves apart from the "mob" on the ground that had to be prodded into action at the point of a gun. The air man's psychology of war depends on the action of the individual, he has no man at his elbow to support him; no officers in front to lead him, and no file closers behind him to shoot him if he runs away as in the case in a ground army. The whole system is entirely different from that of troops on the ground where mob psychology has to be used in directing the men in combat.23 The intrepid band of military aviators was an exclusive club: Few people outside of the air fraternity itself know or understand the dangers that these men face; the lives that they lead and how they actually act when in the air.... No one can explain these things except the airmen themselves.24 And to make the military aviator's courage explicit for those of faint heart: In the actual fighting of the aircraft, moral qualities are required that were never before demanded of men. In the first place, they are alone. No man stands at their shoulder to support them. They know that if a flaming bullet comes through their gasoline tank it immediately becomes a burning torch and they are gone. They know that if a wing is torn off there is the same result.. .that if they fall two hundred or twenty thousand feet, existence is at an end.25  File: --- builder