ence. I had this brought home to me most dramatically in an experience, which I remember as "clearing off the coffee tables." A colleague and I spent 1981 working with the government agency responsible for controlling air pollution in the Los Angeles basin, trying to help them formulate a new strategy after they had exhausted the one that had launched their agency 30 years earlier.3 The first step in thinking about a new strategy was to have a broad understanding of the air pollution problem—not just in scientific or statistical terms, but how the problem was perceived by those who were concerned with its conse- 17  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 41 --- 18 The Icarus Syndrome quences and control. That meant talking to a lot of people—about a hundred interviews, as I recall—who had informed, but diverse view­ points and interests in air pollution control. After the first dozen or so interviews, it was apparent that the views were polarized: • Some believed that the air pollution problem in the Los Angeles basin was highly exaggerated. To be sure, smog was a public nuisance, like a smelly meat packing plant. It might make the eyes water; but people who complained of health problems were probably overly sensitive or in a minority that would complain no matter where they were. The problem should be treated as a public nuisance and abated through reasonable regulations. • Others believed that air pollution in the Los Angeles basin was an immediate danger to life and health. In their view, people were dying every day in Los Angeles due to its polluted air; but the doctors writing the death certificates didn't have the courage to write in the cause of death as smog. The problem should be treated as a threat to public safety, worthy of control by all the emergency powers of government. While there were still others with views in between these extremes, the distance between these two was so great as to beg some understanding of their coexistence by people who had acce