ol and use of air power in the Southwestern Pacific is regarded by many as the example of the tactical use of air power in effective support of MacArthur's theater campaign objectives. But he was guided by the military situation which confronted him, not by air power theory of the time. He did not have the means for striking decisively at the heart of the enemy and thus could only reach the outposts of the Japanese perimeter. In Europe, the mission of strategic bombers was to destroy Germany's war economy. In the Southwest Pacific there were no typical strategic targets other than a few oil refineries. Thus, in the Pacific the air mission was to interdict Japan's sea supply lines and enable the ground forces to conduct an island- hopping strategy.2 More pertinently, Kenney' s application of air power would not require an institutionally independent air force. The bomber faction dominated the Army Air Forces at the end of World War II, as they had prior to the war. It was the keeper of the faith in air power theory; it now possessed the instruments that had (in its eyes) been decisive in strikes at the heart of the enemy; and it would use the theory as a basis for postwar institutional independence. The other commands and interests in the Army Air Forces, as supportive adjuncts, could ride on the coattails of the bomber faction in its leadership of a new and independent Air Force. The Strategic Air Command became the centerpiece of the Air Force and the ultimate embodiment of air power theory during the first decade of the new institution. If air power theory was not central to many who served in the Air Force, it was to those who were at the core of Air Force leadership. If the fighter and transport commands were not the main­ stream of the Air Force, they at least supported a mainstream with a mission based upon a theory of air power. In the previous chapter, I described two trends—the emergence of alternative technical means to the airplane and a new kind of leade