phasized in military creeds and culture. Military leaders have always sought to bring them to life in the armed forces, and the best leaders are still seeking them today.4 Those values are centered on a commitment to mission—a mission of national service—not on the institution, career, or self. It should be apparent that the Air Force has its institutional work cut out for it, because .. .absent a clear understanding of overarching purposes, some people give their loyalty to the next best thing—their particular job or their equipment.... We all recognize this problem as occupationalism. It's what can happen when an institution does not convey a sense of mission to its people.5 A Proposed Mission Statement Considering all that has been said up to this point, I would offer and defend the following mission statement:  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 307 --- 284 The Icarus Syndrome The mission of the Air Force is the military control and exploitation of the aerospace continuum in support of the national interests.6 On seeing these words, one active Air Force officer observed, in part: Few would disagree with your statement; but this looks like an academic's idea of the Air Force mission. Most people won't relate to a word like "continuum." It doesn't have the simplicity of Global Reach—Global Power. I could only agree with him. I am an academic; I am concerned with precision in conveying ideas, not with how they should be phrased for popular appeal. I must leave the packaging to others who are better qualified in such things. What follows is an academic defense of the ideas and choices of words in my proposed mission statement. The central idea behind my mission statement is that each of the military services serves the nation by controlling and exploiting a particular medium. For the Navy, that medium is the maritime environ­ ment. For the Army, it is the land environment. For the Marines, it is the land-sea interface. And for the Air Force, it is the aerospace e