a long process of successive military advances made against it. Broken railroad lines, blown up bridges, and destroyed roads, necessitated months of hardships, the loss of thousands of lives, and untold wealth to accomplish. Now an attack from an air force using explosive bombs and gas may cause the complete evacuation of and cessation of industry in these places. This would deprive armies, air forces and navies even, of their means of maintenance.... So that in the future the mere threat of bombing a town by an air force will cause it to be evacuated, and all work in munitions and supply factories to be stopped.14 The "mere threat" might be enough. Thirty years later, the threat would be the centerpiece of the mutation of air power theory as embodied in the theory of nuclear deterrence.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 96 --- Prophesy 73 The advocates selling air power argued that the third dimension of air warfare granted to air forces something that ground and naval forces had never known—a domain where supremacy brings omnipresence and omnipotence: Armies on the ground or ships on the water have always fought on one surface because they could not get off it. The air force fights in three dimensions.... No missile-throwing weapons or any other devices have yet been created or thought of which can actually stop an air attack, so that the only defense against aircraft are other aircraft which will contest the supremacy of the air by air battles.... Once supremacy of the air has been established, airplanes can fly over a hostile country at will.15 And, lest Americans overlook the significance of air power to their pocketbooks: The surface ship, as a means of making war, will gradually disappear, to be replaced by submarines that will act as transports for air forces and destroyers of commerce. The advent of air power holds out the probability of decreasing the effort and expense required for naval armaments, not only in the craft themselves, but in the great b