e immediate concerns besides theory. Michael Sherry describes their precarious situation and pragmatism: Among American army and navy fliers.. .responsible for early developments in military aviation, practical concerns and patterns of improvisation were also dominant. Money was one preoccupation—the army hesitated to fund aviation at all. Staying alive was another—one fourth of the first contingent of flying officers died in training. They crashed too often or left aviation too soon or were too low in rank to worry about doctrine and strategy. Between 1910 and 1912, they were among the world's first aviators to experiment with firing guns and dropping bombs from planes, but they leapt to few conclusions as a result. As for the Signal Corps, interest was limited to the airplane's role in reconnaissance and communications.3  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 66 --- The Precursors 43 Even as the significance of the airplane on warfare began to dawn in some minds before World War I, what should be done or how to do it was not obvious. Americans were certainly as interested as any about aviation and: Military aviation was even then a public issue, but political debate did little to clarify conceptions of the airplane's purpose. A struggle over where to place aviation in the military system—one destined to plague military politics for decades—was already beginning. But that struggle did as much to sidetrack thinking about the airplane's purpose as to inform it, partly because it encouraged exaggerated claims from partisans, partly because it focused attention on the organizational forms rather than on the strategic substance of air power. True, it was possible to imagine that the airplane would some day be more than "merely an added means of communication, observation and reconnaissance," as the assistant secretary of war characterized it in 1913. By 1916 even the army's general staff, never given to a generous view of the airplane's potential, recommended aviation's