xternal environment. That adverse external environment is more than declining resources; it is also declining public appreciation for what the Air Force offers the nation besides pleas for more of its newest "toys." These concerned people seem to be saying, "Yes, these are rough times, but, if we had the bubble in sight, we would know how best to navigate this thing through the storm and into much better air." Any or all of these views of the Air Force may be correct, from some aspect. Arguing which is more correct may be less useful than thinking about their separate implications. • If it is just a weather problem, then the focus of the institution should be on the externalities: the changing world which the Air Force must confront in the threats and in the economic, technological, and social enviroments at home and around the world. This demands that the pilot's head be up and looking outside the cockpit to skirt the thunderclouds and reach the clear patches above or below. • If the bubble has been lost, however, the pilot's eyes belong inside the cockpit, on the instrument panel, until control has been recovered. The focus of the institution should be on the internalities: its goals and priorities, morale and spirit, values and doctrine. With the aircraft under basic control, the weather can be more effectively navigated. It is obvious that both internal and external factors could pose simultaneous problems for the Air Force at the present time. For a pilot,  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 52 --- The Icarus Syndrome 29 alone, the question would be, "Which is the more important or urgent in demanding my attention?" However, that question may not be pertinent for cockpits with several crew members or for the Air Force as an institution, where both the externalities and internalities, both the weath­ er and the instrument panel, can be addressed simultaneously. That said, two questions remain: 1. Will both be adequately addressed? Is it easier or more natural