g are true: • Fighter aircraft are presently the most important means for that mission to be fulfilled. • At the beginning of the Cold War, bomber aircraft were the most important means for that same mission.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 252 --- Making Painful Choices 229 • If other means, such as space or missile systems, become the most important means for that same mission in the future, the leadership of the Air Force will shift accordingly. The claims of the fighter or tactical pilots to the leadership of the Air Force would seem to be fairly grounded in the nation's wars since World War II. The contributions of air power to Operation Desert Storm, the Vietnam war, and the Korean War were dominated by tactical air power. Whether the contributions of air power in World War II were dominated by bomber aviation can be disputed,9 but the dominance of the bomber at the end of that war and the beginning of the Cold War provided the basis for the bomber pilots' claim to the leadership of the newly independent Air Force. That said, regarding the basis for claims in the past, what about the future? The claim of the carrier aviators to the leadership of the Navy was clearly laid down in World War II. Whether carrier aviation should have remained the future of the Navy—after nuclear submarines made their debut—can and has been disputed. Certainly, the submariner's claim to victory in the Pacific theater of World War II was as substantial, if not as evident or dramatic, as that of the carrier aviators. The role of carrier aviation in the application of naval power since World War II has been dominant; but it is not clear whether that dominance was natural or imposed by its proponents. One could speculate that if the Cold War had turned hot—if Soviet forces had engaged our Navy—the nuclear subma­ rine might have proven itself over carrier aviation, just as carrier aviation proved itself over the battleship 50 years ago. Thus, there is the risk that the dominant fa