n than by the traditional, scattered, on-call commands from units of foot soldiers. Spaatz quickly convinced Eisenhower likewise, and new AAF regulations were drawn up early in 1943 designating all U.S. air forces as either strategic or tactical. The 8th, for example, still commanded by Eaker, was designated "strategic" that summer and its air support command was set aside as the nucleus of a new air force to be solely tactical and to support the Normandy invasion the following year.6 Those divisions blurred as the war progressed and the realities of combat overrode the assumptions of theory. .. .there were many occasions throughout 1943 when the tidy distinction between tactical and strategic became blurred, the most obvious being the invasions of Sicily and then Italy itself, when all air forces available were used on the same objective. After SEXTANT, where Arnold was able to persuade the Combined Chiefs of Staff to set up USSTAF in spite of the strong objections of the RAF, the American Joint Chiefs sought to protect the traditional "air support" priority by ruling that "Should a strategic or tactical emergency arise requiring such action, the Theater Commanders may, at their discretion, utilize the Strategic Air Forces.. .for purposes other than their primary mission." In the case of Normandy, the CCS promised Eisenhower as Supreme Commander complete authority over all air forces, strategic and tactical, British and American, after 1 April 1944. That was the date when the Combined Bomber Offensive was supposed to have achieved its strategic objectives. In the case of the Americans, that objective was the command of the air, always regarded as a prerequisite for the Normandy invasion.7 It wasn' t until 1944 that the American fighter pilots in Europe saw their first opportunity to break out from under the domination of the bomber pilots. General Jimmy Doolittle, then commanding the Eighth Air Force in England gave his permission for the fighters escorting his bom