lable at the time to the Army Air Corps that might justify long-range bombers. A short-lived agree­ ment between the Army and Navy chiefs (General MacArthur and Admiral Pratt) offered a "plausible justification for long-range bombers to defend against sea attack. One of the significant outcomes of the agreement was War Department approval of projects.. .that [ultimately] led to the development of the heavy bombers of World War II."25 The path would be a tortuous one: The agreement between the services did not long survive Pratt's retirement on July 1, 1933. His successor as Chief of Naval Operations, Adm. William H. Standley, repudiated it. The Navy developed land-based planes with the aim of assuming the whole coastal defense responsibility. The Army kept on planning and preparing for a role in coastal defense. The Air Corps pursued its quest for long-range bombers.26 The battle to acquire the big bombers would soon consume General Frank M. Andrews, Commander of the Army's GHQ Air Force. It was a long quest that would cost him his chance to be chief and that would finally see Hap Arnold win both the bid for the bombers and the role of chief. Forging Doctrine from Theory Air power theory was now developed, at least in broad outline. What was needed from the airmen in the mid-1930s was conversion of theory into tactics, doctrine, and concepts for organization and training.27 While well-grounded in the theory, these airmen were no longer proselytizers so much as patient developers of the ideas needed to exploit the theory. Their end was no longer to gain acceptance of a theory but to provide the means to implement it when war came, as they were quite sure it would, even then. The intellectual challenges had to do with defining the necessary and most effective means—the targets, planes, tactics, doc­ trine, and organization. The fixed anvil, provided by the theory, was the primacy of the offense:  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 100 --- Prophesy 77 Young Air Corp