ation for Peggy Noonan's book is, What I Saw at the Revolution: A Political Life in the Reagan Era, (New York: Ivy Books, 1991), 37,38. On those pages, Peggy talks about what happened when new management at CBS News shifted the basis for its actions from journalistic professionalism to financial profitability.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 21 --- Acknowledgments It was General Phillip J. Ford, then commandant of the Air Command and Staff College at the Air University, who instigated this enterprise. He saw the need, helped me wrestle the problem to the ground, and then enlisted his colleagues and his boss in its support. He was the right person, at the right place, and at the right time, to make it happen. General Charles "Chuck" Boyd, commander of the Air University, assumed the role of project shepherd. He cleared my way both at RAND and at the Air University, ensuring that the enterprise was supported. He defined the terms of reference or specifications for the work, then counseled and encouraged me along the way. I thought of him as the "gentle intellect" that had been behind the scenes, pursuing something even bigger, even before I took up one of his several challenges. At RAND, both James Thomson, president, and George Donohue, vice president for Project Air Force, gave immediate and enthusiastic support for the project. George said, "This is something we can and should do, even without Air Force sponsorship." I am indebted to Ted Warner, the project leader, for his early detection of the match between the challenge and my interests, and to David Ochmanek, the program director, for his strong endorsement when the nature of the project shifted and expanded to its final form. In carrying out the research and writing, I am deeply indebted to four colleagues who did most of the literature searching and combing for pertinent quotes. They are Jerry Stiles, Duane Deal, Lucille Horgan, and Mike Anderson. Duane and Mike are serving Air Force officers, then ass