r medium. For the Navy, that medium is the maritime environ­ ment. For the Army, it is the land environment. For the Marines, it is the land-sea interface. And for the Air Force, it is the aerospace environment. I deliberately chose the word, continuum, instead of environment to stress the unity of the air and space environments in Air Force opera- tions.7It represents my explicit intent to integrate air and space operations in the mission of the Air Force; space has been a stepchild too long. By the word, aerospace, I would avoid any separation or distinction between air and space in priorities, preferences, or budgets—the things people will look to for clues about favoritism. The verbs, control and exploit, include, but go well beyond combat operations. They admit that the Air Force may serve the national interest—as expressed by the president as commander in chief of the nation's military forces—by operations that have nothing to do with combat, such as humanitarian and disaster assistance. Control and exploit admit both defensive and offensive combat operations. Those verbs also admit air and space operations by the Air Force in support of its sister services and of friends or allies. Is it necessary to qualify those verbs with the adverb, military? I would argue that some of the nation's interests in controlling and exploiting the aerospace continuum might also be served by commercial ventures, such as the nation's airlines, aerospace industries, telecommunications utili­ ties, and civil institutions (e.g., NASA and COMSAT). The Air Force, as a military service, provides for military control and exploitation of the  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 308 --- A Theory to Fly By 285 aerospace continuum, a mission which is and ought to be distinguished from civil control and exploitation of those media. Is the mission of the Air Force media-specific (the aerospace contin­ uum) rather than task-specific (strike, defend, etc.)? I would argue that it is or ought t