bing operations must be protected by fighter airplanes. This was proved to be essential in the Battle of Britain, and prior to that our own exercises with bombers and fighters indicated that bombers alone could not elude modern pursuit, no matter how fast the bombers traveled. 8. Our Air Force must be ready for combined operations with ground forces, and with the Navy. 9. We must maintain our research and development programs in order to have the latest equipment it was possible to get, as soon as it was possible to get it. 10. Air power is not made up of airplanes alone. Air power is a composite of airplanes, air crews, maintenance crews, air bases, air supply, and sufficient replacements in both planes and crews to maintain a constant fighting strength, regardless of what losses may be inflicted by the enemy. In addition to that, we must have the backing of a large aircraft industry in the United States to provide all kinds of equipment, and a large training establishment that can furnish the personnel when called upon.13 Arnold's equitable respect for all who served in the Air Force—in contrast to the persistent tendencies toward pilot elitism within the institution—caused him problems:  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 127 --- 104 The Icarus Syndrome The over-all program for the Army Air Forces required an overwhelming air superiority over our enemies in the shortest possible time. Our global field of operations required men from all walks of life. Each had a part to play, whether he was a hotel clerk, a railroad man, a shipping man, a barber, an auto mechanic, or a painter. We had need for all of them, each one fitting into his proper place— square pegs in square holes and round pegs in round holes.... During those early days, a great many Air Corps officers had the idea that everybody in the Air Force should be a pilot, regardless of whether he was running a hotel, a bus line, taking charge of motor transportation, or planning a hydroponics garden for the