fine air power. Air power theory was the intellectual vehicle for creating the Air Force as an institution; it can be the vehicle for recreating it now. The institutional problems now troubling the Air Force will not be resolved until it once again orients itself to a mission worthy of devotion by an independent military institution—not to its ends (more, better, higher, faster, farther), but to the ends of those it serves (cheaper, quicker, easier, safer). Redefining air power won't ensure the institutional health of the Air Force; but its health can't be recovered without it. Thus, fixing air power theory is a necessary, but not a sufficient, prerequisite to fixing the Air Force. The question now is how to redefine air power theory to meet the needs of the Air Force as an institution and the nation's security for the future. Theory, Mission, Vision, and Strategy To trace the role of air power theory in the evolution of the Air Force, we need to define and distinguish four related, but different conceptual  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 229 --- 206 The Icarus Syndrome terms—not to be pedantic, but to recognize them as different ideas with different uses. The definitions will be consistent with those that can be found in the dictionary; but their distinctions rather than their similarities will be emphasized to separate their meanings and uses. 1. A theory is a supposition or conjecture about the relationships between things. Theories explain why. Air power theory, when it was advanced as theory, supposed that air power could be applied decisively in war if applied to the heart of the enemy. The theory further supposed that such application would require control of the air and that such control would require independent control of air power. Until those suppositions were proven, air power was a theory. 2. A mission is a task or function that is assigned or adopted. Missions declare purpose. As originally conceived in airpower theory, the mission of air power