ratives took priority over theoretical founda­ tions. Like in so many accidents, the pilots had been distracted by an emergency from paying attention to their basic flight controls.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 237 --- 214 The Iearus Syndrome Because of the highly competitive environment created by the Soviet demarche, the Air Force aggressively pursued programs to develop ballistic missile and space systems; but these new means for exploiting the third dimension of warfare were included as adjuncts rather than alternatives to the airplane. Just as the Navy, 30 years earlier, had accepted the aircraft carrier as an adjunct rather than an alternative or even a challenge to the big-gun battleship, the Air Force leadership would not admit to the possibility of missiles replacing aircraft. Ballistic missiles and spacecraft were seen a means for increasing the effectiveness and competitiveness of airplanes, not as their replacements. Unlike the battleship admirals, the Air Force aviators were never confronted with a wartime trauma, like Pearl Harbor, to clear their minds and overturn their dispositions. Consequently, the Air Force leadership accepted the missileers and "space cadets" into the institution as latter-day adjuncts to air power, as they had mechanics, navigators, and technologists before them. The missileers and space technicians could find a welcome home in the Air Force; but it would be in an institution run by aviators, particularly bomber pilots. The strategy was flawed, not so much by what it drew from air power theory, but by its narrow focus on means (which were predominantly manned airplanes) and by its expanded interpretation of ends to include all uses of military airplanes. The Air Force and its air power strategy had been captured by its original means. What could, and what should, the Air Force have done at that juncture to adjust its strategy, with 20-20 hindsight? It should have seen that the air power theory which had brought them so