Force's identity and the narrowing of the means threatened the shared purpose within the Air Force as an institution. 1. If the end of air power is striking at the enemy anywhere, not just at the enemy's heart, then the Air Force is not unique as an institution wielding air power: The Navy, Marines, and Army (to a lesser degree) also possess air power (and other means) to strike at the enemy's engaged surface combat forces and to defend their own surface forces against enemy air attacks. 2. If the means of air power are primarily manned airplanes, not missiles or spacecraft, then missileers and space technicians are not part of the mainstream of the Air Force and do not share in its institutional purpose. They would be better served in their own independent institutions or by being adjuncts to the other services. The logical inconsistencies are (and have been) evident in a series of interservice and intraservice battles between the: • Army and the Air Force over the close air support mission; • bomber and fighter aviation communities over leadership of the Air Force; • Army and Navy over ballistic missile developments, • transport and combat aviation communities over their relative status within the Air Force; • Air Force and the Navy over the targeting and control of strategic nuclear forces; and • pilots and everyone else in the Air Force over their relative status.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 239 --- 216 The Icarus Syndrome All of these battles have their roots in the differences between air power theory, as originally conceived, and the Air Force strategy as it was implemented during the first decade of its independence as a military institution. Notes 1. Sir Arthur Eddington, Stars and Atoms (New York: Oxford University Press, 1927), 41, as quoted in the frontispiece of ICARUS, International Journal of Solar System Studies. 2. Herman S. Wolk, "George C. Kenney: The Great Innovator," in Makers of the United States Air Force, ed. John L. Frisbee (Washi