ons. Including the $50 gasoline engine built by Ford, the entire device cost about $400. To launch the Bug, tracks were pointed toward the objective. The distance to the target, and wind direction and intensity, were figured out as accurately as possible. The number of revolutions of the engine required to take the Bug to the target was then figured, and a cam set. When the engine had turned exactly that proper number of revolutions, the cam fell into position, the two bolts holding on the wings were withdrawn, the wings folded up like a jack rabbit's ears, and the Bug plunged to earth as a bomb. (In 1944 the German V-l's flew to their objectives on similar principles, insofar as range was concerned.) By mid-1918, the development of the Bug had proceeded so favorably that we decided to tell General Pershing and the Commanding General of the Air Service in France what we were doing. We were sure we would be ready to send some of the pilotless bombs overseas within a few months. A proposed Table of Organization was drawn up showing the number of officers and men that would be required in each Bug squadron, and an estimate was prepared showing the number of Bugs each squadron would be able to launch in twenty-four hours. It was planned to launch thousands every day against German strong points, concentration areas, munition plants, etc.—which would certainly have caused great consternation in the ranks of the German High Command at least. The Bug was twenty-five years ahead of its time. For all practical purposes—as a nuisance weapon—it compared very favorably with the German V-l. It was cheap, easy to manufacture, and its portable launching track would have permitted its use anywhere. Considering the trends in air weapons today, and that the first German V-l was not launched against Britain until the fifth year of World War II, it is interesting to think how this little Bug might have changed the whole face of history if it had been allowed to develop without interrup