Air Command emerged barely more than a year after World War II, even before the Air Force had achieved its impending independence from the Army. Air power theory in America had begun its 15-year transmogrification into deterrence theory. Where to Put Tactical Air Power? Although the Air Force would seek a single combat command centered on its strategic bomber force, the Army's concern for continued support from tactical aviation had extracted an important concession: With the surrender of Germany accomplished and the defeat of Japan assured, AAF leaders resumed their prewar campaign for a separate air force. Newly elected President Harry Truman was known to favor a reorganization of the military structure.... After Japan capitulated later in the year, [Gen. Elwood] Quesada became part of an informal group including Spaatz, Eaker, Fred Anderson, Lauris Norstad, and Hoyt Vandenberg, which set out to sell the idea of a separate air force. While negotiations with the Navy took place at the Secretary's level, this group worked to persuade senators and the Army of the soundness of a separate air force. Quesada's role was to convince the Army,  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 163 --- 140 The Icarus Syndrome specifically Eisenhower and Bradley, and Senator Leverett Saltonstall, the Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, that the Army did not need its own tactical Air Force. Principally through his wartime relationship with them, Quesada persuaded the Army generals that the air force knew better how to use its airplanes and that the flexibility air power had demonstrated so successfully in the war would be maintained by a separate air force. At one point, with Quesada present, Spaatz promised Eisenhower that if Eisenhower supported separation, the Air Force would always meets its commitment to the Army by providing permanent and strong tactical air forces. In part as a result of this promise, Eisenhower and Bradley were won over.17 This was a promise that Quesada kn