ginal means. What could, and what should, the Air Force have done at that juncture to adjust its strategy, with 20-20 hindsight? It should have seen that the air power theory which had brought them so far in 40 years was about unique ends and means, not about all uses of military aviation or airplanes. Air power theory proposed the unique end of striking at the heart of an enemy—at the sources of the enemy's means for waging war, before they could be used in combat. Air power theory proposed the unique means of carrying out such strikes through the third dimension, instead of engaging and defeating the enemy's surface forces. In its zeal to promote military aviation, the Air Force implicitly broadened the end and narrowed the means of air power theory. The end, instead of striking at the heart of the enemy, became striking at the enemy anywhere, including enemy forces which had been brought to bear in surface combat. And the means, instead of strikes through the third  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 238 --- Crash Analysis 215 dimension, had been narrowed primarily to the piloted airplane. Dirigi­ bles and robot airplanes had been rejected early. Cruise and ballistic missiles and space systems had been accepted, but not with alacrity or with equality to manned aircraft. Missiles and space systems had been forced on the Air Force if it was to defend against encroachments from its sister services on its missions and budget slice. Therefore the question is, in adapting air power theory to a strategy for the newly independent Air Force, should the end have been broadened; should the means have been narrowed? I think both changes undermined the theory as a strategy and then as a vision for the institution. The broadening of the end threatened the uniqueness of the Air Force's identity and the narrowing of the means threatened the shared purpose within the Air Force as an institution. 1. If the end of air power is striking at the enemy anywhere, not just at the enem