exchange for years. Deterrence had  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 132 --- The Test of Fire 109 failed, the British executed their deterrent threat, and the bombing of cities on both sides rapidly escalated thereafter: On 24 August [1940] two German aircraft, hopelessly lost after failing to find their intended objective in the Midlands, scattered their bombs at random over [London], inadvertently breaching Goering's order that it was not to be attacked. Churchill ordered Bomber Command to attack Berlin as a reprisal, which in turn provoked Hitler to order that London should now become his air force's main target.6 But the details of those events reveal the British predisposition toward the aerial bombardment of cities: The two lost aircraft were part of a planned German raid on the Thames-side cities of Rochester and Kingston and the huge oil-tank storage installations at Thameshaven, some 15 miles downriver from London. The lead planes, which were flying on radio beams, were followed by others that were not so equipped. On the run-in to the targets, two of these planes lost visual touch with their radio- equipped pathfinders and strayed on beyond the main attack pattern. A fountain of flak rose to meet them and the antiaircraft barrage became thicker as they flew on, clinging together. At last, realizing they were lost, the two pilots decided that there was only one thing to do. They jettisoned their bombs, turned east, and raced for home. As it happened, they were over London itself when they unloaded their bombs. Two of them fell on the heart of the city, razing the ancient church of St. Giles in Cripplegate and ripping John Milton's statue off its pedestal in a nearby square. The rest of the bombs crashed down in the northern and eastern London boroughs of Islington, Finchley, Stepney, Tottenham, and Bethnal Green among others, killing customers as they came out of the pubs at closing time and audiences on their way home from movie houses.7 If the German