ILDING U.S. INFLUENCE: STRENGTHENING SECURITY PARTNERS & RELATIONSHIPS The Air Force is well postured to contribute to security assistance by supporting the operations and supplying the equipment needs of our security partners. Training and logistics aid are often acceptable security assistance even when other forms of influence are not; training other nation's pilots is a cost effective way to provide influence and to keep our training base ready to surge, if necessary. Our airlift is an important tool for good will and humanitarian assistance in disaster relief, with dividends in strengthening our allies and influencing security-related events. Long-range surveillance aircraft provide for deterrence even when other forms of presence or force are not appropriate or possible. Land-based aircraft have  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 297 --- 274 The Icarus Syndrome proven to be the most effective than any other kinds of force in resolving crises without war; and aerospace forces will become even more important in the future. CONCLUSIONS The Air Force is focusing on changing security needs, not just on changing fiscal constraints. The United States is the world's foremost aerospace power; and the Air Force is a partner with the nation's aerospace industry in that power. The Air Force is building the forces and capabilities—complementing each other and those of its sister services—as needed for the future nation's security. The Air Force sees a window of opportunity to become even more useful to the nation through its unique capabilities to provide global reach and global power. What Is Global Reach—Global Power? On the basis of this abstract of Global Reach—Global Power, what can be said about the nature of the document? • Most of all, it is about current Air Force capabilities and air power attributes—not so much about what they should be as about what they are. • Strikingly, it presents a perspective of the nation's interests and security needs which are exten