ded in Normandy, and two and a half years after Kettering, Knudsen, and I held this discussion in my office.10 Arnold didn't dismiss the German V-l "buzz" bombs as a mere nuisance weapon, even though he had used that term to describe them. Indeed, the Allied bombing effort directed at the V-l launch sites suggests the level of concern engendered by their potential to bombard England and the forces building up for the Normandy invasion. The Eighth Air Force...from August, 1943, until the summer of 1944, dropped approximately 100,000 tons of bombs on the [V-1 launch sites].... But apart from other failures to stop them, the USSBS [the U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey] estimates that these bombings by the Eighth, the R.A.F., and subsequently by both American and R.A.F. mediums, cost the German V-weapon program a loss of three to four months. The damage done to the sites once they started firing was not great. They had eventually to be captured by the infantry.... The bombs the Eighth Air Force sent down on the "No Ball" and "Cross Bow" targets between August, 1943, and the summer of 1944 amounted to 9 percent of the bombs they dropped against Germany in that period. Apart from the human desolation when the reduced robot bomb program was finally launched—2752 civilians dead, 8000 injured, Churchill announced, after only thirty-five days of the robots on London—it can be fairly claimed that the diversion of so many  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 184 --- The Technology Janus 161 bombers to such a defensive purpose proves the V-1 to have been much more than a nuisance weapon. I agree—if they had been used rightly, and in time.... Anyway, I'm as glad as any Londoner that we did bomb these launching sites when we did. I happened to be there when the first V- l's came down on England, and regardless of larger strategic considerations there seemed to me to be quite enough of them." Technology as Threat The Air Force pays a price for its love of technology: Technology show