ontrol and exploitation of those media. Is the mission of the Air Force media-specific (the aerospace contin­ uum) rather than task-specific (strike, defend, etc.)? I would argue that it is or ought to be. The tasks or the operations of the Air Force should be open-ended and changing over time, limited or constrained by only four parameters: 1. Media: Tasks or operations that are associated with control or exploitation of the aerospace continuum. 2. National interest: Tasks or operations that serve the national interests— survival, security, well-being, prosperity, etc. 3. Military: Tasks or operations that require military personnel and their equipment because of dangers, risks, or unique assets. 4. Law: Tasks or operations that conform to the American constitution and domestic laws governing the military, as well as to the international treaties and laws governing the military.8 Is that mission statement so broad that it would dilute the focus of the Air Force? I would argue that the Air Force has been over-focused on airplanes—on combat airplanes, on manned combat airplanes, on fast manned combat airplanes—to the detriment of many systems and capabilities it should have if it is truly committed to serving the nation's interests rather than the interests of military pilots. The nation's interests in the future, as in the past, are likely to be better served by the diversity than by the scale of capabilities offered by the Air Force. (Subsequently, General McPeak offered this mission statement: "Our mission is to defend the United States through control and exploitation of air and space."9! like the verbs, "control and exploitation," and the brevity of the statement. I think that "defend the United States" is too narrow a definition of military missions now and, increasingly, in the future; but, interpreted broadly, General McPeak's statement can be helpful to the profession of arms within the Air Force and, hence, to the institution.) A Proposed Vision Would my mi