long-term trend in the balance between spear point and shaft is obvious; and the shift is not limited to the Air Force: When the principal form of firepower was musketry, and soldiers could live off the land upon which they fought, it was important that most soldiers be at the front line—with the infantry, artillery, or cavalry—where they could bring fire and steel upon the enemy. Now, a single soldier can, at the press of a  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 287 --- 264 The Icarus Syndrome button, bring to bear the firepower equivalent of thousands of muskets; but to do so requires the support of tens, even hundreds of specialists to locate the targets, maintain the complex equipment, and provide the myriad supplies and services for a modern, mobile army. While many soldiers express concern about the balance between "teeth" and "tail" in their armies, the teeth are now more than sharp enough; it is the tail that marks the difference between world-class armies and local militias. During Operation Desert Storm, we took great pride in our combat aircraft and the weapons they carried. Yet they are not what our allies envied or our enemy regretted most. It was our infrastructure. They had combat aircraft and weapons that might not have quite matched ours; but they felt naked and lost without our surveillance, communications, and navigation capabilities. Indeed, one of our allies was reported to have sworn never again to be utterly dependent on American intelligence capabilities, even in coalition warfare. It was not our combat aircraft that set us so apart from our allies or enemy in capabilities; it was our projection of essential infrastructures for modern, precision warfare. In addition to what air power is, there is the issue of what air power does—the claims for air power. In the wake of Operation Desert Storm, some air power advocates have felt vindicated in their long-disputed claim of decisiveness, only to find that the dispute has not ended. Air power may h