erception 725 miles out, dropped a note to the liner, and returned to base.. J1 The Army Chief of Staff, Gen. Malin C. Craig, immediately telephoned General Andrews and ordered that the Air Corps henceforth limit its  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 112 --- The Apostles 89 activities to a zone within 100 miles of the coast. The strange thing about this order was that though it was common knowledge—and a standard operating procedure, thereafter—it was never put in writing. The Air Corps then needed a new reason for developing and procuring long range bombers...J8 The details of this episode reveal Andrews to be an unrelenting advocate for the B-17 bomber. Since the political and military emphasis was on defense, it was not possible to speak in terms of offense. But a bomber like the B-17 with a cruising speed of 230 miles an hour, a service ceiling of 25,000 feet, and a range of 2,200 miles, was obviously a defensive-offensive weapon of great promise. And while Secretary of War Woodring was calling, in 1938, for a balanced air arm with a promised 2,320 planes by June 1940, based on the belief that two or three smaller planes could be bought for the price of one large one, Andrews concentrated on building a strategic air force around the power and promise of the B-17. What he hoped to do was convince Westover and the War Department that over the next three years ninety-eight of the Boeings should be purchased, enough to equip his Air Force with two groups. He demonstrated the B-17's promise time and time again, in maneuvers and long-distance flights. For example, in August 1937, during war games with the Navy, the 2d Bomb Group's B-17s, operating under almost impossible ground rules, sought out and soaked the USS Utah with water bombs 285 miles off the California coast. The Navy insisted that the outcome of these games be kept from the public. It was not. Matters dealing with the promise of aircraft came to a head in May 1938. Conducting the largest aerial maneu