rus Syndrome The end of one era and the opening of another could not have been much clearer: The task of the military airman now departs from the crusading role. It becomes a task of organization on a tremendous scale. No longer do we require flaming leaders with fanatic zeal to sell a cause; we need sound, even-tempered minds of great resource and depth to perfect the plans and build the structure of an air force larger than the armies and navies of old. No longer does the pilot monopolize the air-fighter role. He now knows that the navigator, the engineer, the gunner, the bombardier and many another important combat crew member play equally vital roles. The new size of the air army makes it impossible and even undesirable that every key artisan be a pilot. Many of them, as we now know, need not even be flyers at all." Arnold could then close his circle—having gone from praise to admon­ ishment—advising that the era of strident advocacy for air power was and should be over: It is no longer necessary for the airman to claim that he can win wars alone. His arm has reached an acknowledged importance and a recognized value and size so that there is no longer need for hyperbole in describing its vital role. The simple facts now coming from the world's battlefields speak more loudly of the power of air forces than the strongest language the earlier prophets were able to paint by epithet or eulogy.12 Arnold's qualities and his vision of the Air Force reflect both harmony and contrast with those who preceded and followed him in air power leadership. During World War II, Arnold laid out ten principles for Air Force operations, provided below. His 1 st, 2nd, and 5th principles are completely faithful to air power theory and doctrine. But the 6th, 7th, and 8th were antithetical to the tenets of air power as originally developed by its prophets and apostles. His 4th, 9th, and 10th principles are Arnold's hallmarks—deep and abiding concerns for the importance of all Air Force p