s the essence. They differed sharply from other servicemen in their higher sense of satisfaction with the particular jobs and tasks they performed. To a considerable degree, their mentality was occupational rather than military. They saw themselves more as technicians and professionals than as warriors, and the techniques learned in war promised social and economic mastery in peacetime.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 204 --- Slow Fall from Grace 181 It also provided a sense of mastery over self and nature, especially for pilots. Flying allowed fulfillment of a "child's dreams of omnipotence in the face of his toddling weakness." These dreams "are usually abandoned with fairy tales and toys," commented air force psychiatrists; but "this supertoy, this powerful, snorting, impatient but submissive machine, enables the man to escape the usual limitations of time and space." Flying created "a feeling of aggressive potency bordering on the unchallenged strength of a superman." When the author of God is My Co-Pilot flew over Mount Everest, "he felt that he had humbled this highest mountain and patronizingly saluted his fallen opponent." The airplane offered "the perfect prescription for those that are weak, hesitant or frustrated on earth. Give them wings, 2000 horses compressed into a radial engine, and what can stop them?"2 The cultural separation of the Air Force from the other American military services widened: Sanctioned by the air force, the contractual perception of the airman's duty strengthened the disjunction between means and ends characteristic of the air war. Duty involved the performance of technical tasks. The ethic was not a military one bound to the achievement of victory as it was for most other servicemen, but a professional one, related of course to war but both more finite than the war and transcending it because so many of the rewards were to carry over into the peace. Other men in combat performed tasks—bayoneting an enemy soldier, operating