au (Tame Boar), twin- engine fighters that orbited a beacon and then plunged into the bomber stream, indi- cated by the Pathfinders' route markers and the bombers' radar track and signal's emis- sions. The system moved from GCI control to a running commentary that broadcast the direction of the bomber stream (and target) to the airborne defenders. This capitalized on the concentration of British bombers in the bomber stream and focused action over the target area. (The flak gunners fired below a ceiling above which the fighters operated.) To engage the bomber stream as early as possible, by February 1944 some fighters met the bombers half way across the North Sea. Thus the GAF defenses worked well, increasingly so, as long as Bomber Com- mand allowed crews to select their timing and routes along a broad front. In mid-1943 Bomber Command introduced two tactical innovations. The first directed a concen- trated stream of bombers through a specific 93 The GAF also introduced new equip- ment. First, it equipped night fighters with detection devices thereby making them less dependent on ground assistance. After trying an infrared searchlight in the summer of 1940, the Germans began operations with airborne fighter radar (Lichtenstein) in early 1942. But there was resistance to its use by the more accomplished night fighter pilots in part because the antenna array cut air speed by twenty-five miles per hour. This was downsized, and by 1943 95 percent of the GAF's night fighters were so equipped. A newer radar, SN-2, operating on a dif- ferent frequency that was less susceptible to jamming, became operational in October 1943, and equipped the majority of the night fighters by early 1944. The Luftwaffe also fitted night fighters with devices to home in on emissions from British IFF, radar, and aircraft detectors. One of the most significant improvements was to arm the night fighters with heavier forward firing cannon (up to 30 mm) and twin upward firing cannon. The latter, c