ish measurements to the metric system, during which the dimen- sions were slightly increased which in turn increased weight. The only basic differences in the Russian version were to eventually change the armament from .50-caliber to 23-mm cannons and use their own slightly more powerful engines. With a three- thousand-mile range, the bomber could hit some U.S. cities on the West Coast, albeit on one-way missions. To reach further the Soviets would have to obtain forward bases or employ air-to-air refueling. Apparently there were trials with tankers in the early 1950s but no further progress at the time. This was some comfort, although the Tu-4s did threaten American overseas bases as The Washingtons were not fitted with nuclear capabilities. This was not publicized at the time because it would have lessened the British deterrent, and it has confused writers ever since. It should be noted that the United States ungraciously ended nuclear cooperation with the British with the passage of the McMahon Act in August The same was true with estimates of when the Soviets would field a long-range, nuclear delivery system. The Russians had The Bear The Soviets mastered turboprop power plants to meet their requirement for an intercontinental-range bomber. They sought an aircraft with a ninety-three-hundred- mile range with bomb load, cruising at 466 to 509 mph, and a maximum speed of 571 to 590 mph. The response by the Tupolev design bureau was the Tu-95 Bear, which evolved from their earlier prop designs. (Tupolev's experience with the jet-powered Tu-16 Badger medium bomber convinced the designer that jet engines were inad- equate for intercontinental bombers.) The project competed with and outlasted the jet- powered Myasishchyev M-4.The Bear was powered by four turboprop engines, each of which turned two giant, eighteen-foot- diameter counterrotating props and was defended by three turrets, each mounting twin 23-mm cannons. The Tu-95 first flew in November 1952 and encounter