ed service in February 1955 and was prematurely retired ten years later due to severe metal fatigue, the high cost of repairs, and the advent of other V-bombers. (Air University Press) 201 did successfully fulfill its primary mission, strategic deterrence. By the end of Janu- ary 1956 Bomber Command had a force consisting of eight Valiants and a number of nuclear weapons. In October of that year a Valiant dropped a nuclear bomb in Australian tests, the first dropped by an RAF bomber, and in May 1957 it dropped Britain's first hydrogen bomb, demonstrat- ing both the weapon and the delivery system. The Valiants served in the nuclear deterrent role between 1956 and 1960, until displaced by the Vulcans and Victors. The RAF then shifted the Valiants to a tactical nuclear bombing role under NATO, replac- ing Canberras. Later the Valiants served in tactical, ECM, photo reconnaissance, and refueling roles. The RAF discovered cracks in the Valiants following two crashes in May 1964. These were caused by wing spar metal fatigue exacerbated by the low-level flying, although the aircraft had flown only half of its designed fatigue life. Inspection revealed a severe problem that led the RAF to retire the entire Valiant fleet ahead of schedule in January 1965 because of the high costs of a fix and the aircraft's limited remaining life. Vickers delivered 107 Valiants to the RAF, a bomber considered by one historian to be an "exceedingly elegant aircraft, and one of the most graceful and refined of all British bombers."32 Vickers also had competed for the high performance role and met all the require- ments except range. It was a less daring and less risky design with lower performance than either the Vulcan or Victor designs but could be put into service sooner. In early 1948 Vickers got the go-ahead. The Valiant was distinguished by its swept wing positioned high on the fuselage, large oval (later "spectacle") intakes positioned on the leading edge near the wing roots, bulging do