l in the event of going down in the inhospitable high latitudes. During World War II the AAF had established an emer- gency landing strip at Thule, Greenland, six hundred miles north of the Arctic Circle, which was extended to seventy-five hun- dred feet in 1951 and became operational two years later. After 1947, however, Air Force basing interest focused on Western Europe and North Africa. While American bombers could operate freely out of occu- pied Germany, getting there was difficult because Western European countries were hesitant to grant overflight permission. Brit- ain was another matter; the AAF used Brit- ish bases in 1946 and began rotating bomber units to these bases in 1948. Further, the United States obtained permission to build and use bases in North Africa, Iceland, Spain, and the Azores. SAC also built and upgraded stateside bases to accommodate the increas- ing numbers of heavier bombers. The quickest solution was to obtain bases outside of the United States. The military realized, however, that bases closer to Russia were more vulnerable to attacks and those in non-American territory were subject to the dictates of the host nation. The Arctic region was one area of interest as cross polar routes were the shortest between the United States and Soviet Union; however, the USAF had inadequate facilities in Alaska and encountered extremely difficult conditions. The aircraft had to be winterized ("Arcti- cized" would be a more appropriate term) and men and equipment had to adapt to exceedingly cold temperatures and unique navigation conditions such as the featureless terrain, inoperative magnetic compasses, and periods of extended light or dark. Morale was a problem in the northern climes, both at the bases and because of the difficulty of In typical American fashion, the air- men developed a technical solution to the problem: air-to-air refueling. Americans had made some record-breaking endurance flights in the 1920s using this technique, the most famo