rly the Germans gave strategic bombing consider- able thought and were thinking in terms of attacking the enemy's industrial base. They were influenced by Douhet, although with reservations. In the words of one historian, "The theories of Douhet enjoyed far more thorough scrutiny and acclaim in Germany than in many European nations."6 convenience, Joseph Stalin, a larger stake in a defeated Poland. Weather thwarted this effort, delaying the attack for two weeks when the Germans hit the city with 183 aircraft, a mission notable primarily for the confusion among the attackers. The Ger- mans also flew numerous leaflet-dropping missions over Warsaw, but the city would not surrender. The Soviets joined the invasion of Poland on September 17. German Strategic Bombing Doctrine The development of German air theories has been distorted by writers who have taken the events of World War II and folded them back into the prewar years. From this has evolved the myth of the Luftwaffe as only a close support air force with a bomber arm designed for terror bombing. This is convenient and simple, but just plain wrong. Immediately following World War I, the German military ignored strategic air opera- tions. In 1921 German doctrine held that air superiority was the primary goal of the air force, and because of bomber vulnerabil- ity in daylight, bombing operations would be conducted at night against railroads and supplies. Nevertheless, in 1924 war games German players "attacked" French industry. Two years later the Germans issued a direc- tive that called for two air forces, one tactical and one strategic. The latter would attack the enemy's homeland and focus on civil- ian morale. "By attacks against the enemy's major cities and industrial centers," the directive held that "it will be attempted to crush the enemy's moral resistance and will to fight by targeting his armaments industry and food distribution."4 This document was less radical than Douhet and other air power theorists i