p to this point in the war. Photo reconnaissance on August 1 revealed that the bombing heavily damaged sixty- two hundred acres of residential area (74 percent of the city's residential districts) and damaged shipyards and power and transportation services. The destruction left nine hundred thousand people homeless; they fled the city with tales of horror and terror. "These firestorms," as one report made clear, "[went] beyond all human imagination ... developing in a short time into a fire typhoon such as was never before witnessed, against which every human resis- tance was quite useless."23 89 This was the first massive death toll from an air attack, dwarfing Guernica, Warsaw, Rotterdam, and London. While the most quoted figure for the numbers who died is about sixty thousand, the best estimate is about forty-five thousand deaths. The attacks shook the German decision makers and prompted Albert Speer to fear the loss of the war if the Allies could do the same to six more German cities. Bomber Command tried to duplicate its Hamburg success but could not until the Dresden attack in February 1945. hundred), with a much higher proportion of Lancasters, and increased bomb loads. On 17,021 sorties the British suffered 695 losses, or 4.1 percent. The loss rate declined despite the deeper penetrations, due to the use of Window, the dispersion of targets, and weaker German defenses. The Tide Shifts With these successes under its belt, Bomber Command turned its attention to the enemy's capital. Berlin was the largest city in Germany, the third largest in the world, with a prewar population of more than 4 million (by March 1944 reduced to 2.9 million) and an area of 883 square miles. It was the political as well as industrial center of the country. Arthur Harris summed up his view in November 1943, writing, "We can wreck Berlin from end to end if the U.S.A.A.F. will come in on it. It will cost between us 400-500 aircraft. It will cost Germany the war."24 At this point he li