construction yards, aircraft industry, transportation, oil, and other war industrial targets. It is important to emphasize that bombing was not intended to win the war alone but to be a partner in the overall victory. One other significant accom- plishment of the Casablanca Conference was the publicly stated policy of unconditional surrender. This was now officially a total war between the two coalitions, which would grant the airmen great latitude in their appli- cation of strategic bombing. of the Atlantic was the role of maritime reconnaissance, especially long-range aircraft covering the mid-Atlantic.6 The Eighth marked a milestone in its bombing campaign on January 27, 1943, when it dispatched ninety-one bombers on its first strike against targets in Germany. To this point the attacks in Western Europe had gone fairly well. In 1942 the Eighth had lost or written off thirty-four bombers, 4.1 percent of effective sorties.8 But the loss rate was increasing, and with deeper penetrations into Germany, stiffer resistance was expected. There were other problems as well. Main- tenance hindered operations. During 1942 only three-fifths of the dispatched bombers attacked targets, while during the entire war that rate was four-fifths. Although the B-17 was not a new bomber, it encountered a slew of problems with superchargers, gen- erators, and, most of all, propeller governors. These were exacerbated by the inexperi- enced air and ground crews. As Eaker noted in January 1943, there was a difference between prewar regulars and wartime per- sonnel made up of"sturdy amateur[s] with all the 'guts' in the world."9 In May 1943 the Allied decision makers made a number of key decisions. First, they scheduled the cross-Channel Normandy invasion for May 1, 1944. Second, operations in the Mediterranean would be confined to knocking Italy out of the war. They also directed that the Ploesti oil fields be hit as soon as possible. The Combined Bomber Offensive (CBO) plan listed fighter