equire eight to ten years development. A June 1947 Air Staff missile memo put the long-range missile fourth in priority. (Between fiscal years 1951 and 1954 the Atlas received $26 million, the Snark and Navaho $450 million.) demonstrate its capabilities, and not being able to get money because it had not dem- onstrated its capabilities. The Korean War opened the money spigot, and in January 1951 the USAF restarted the program that Convair had been sparsely supporting on its own. The delay was beneficial as great progress had been made with thermonuclear warheads that had many times the power of the Hiroshima bomb, with reduced size and weight.5 The greater yield allowed accuracy requirements to be reduced from .25 nm at 5,000 nm to 2 to 3 nm. More significant was the reduc- tion of the payload requirement, from 8,000 to 1,500 pounds, which in turn permitted a reduction in the missile's gross weight from 440,000 pounds to 240,000 pounds. Air Force opinion was split on the program, with the development people favoring it while the Air Staff showing indifference and skepticism. But in March 1954 the Air Force accelerated the Atlas and in May elevated it to its highest research and development priority. (Interservice rivalry may have played prompted this action, as the Air Force did not want to lose ICBMs to the other services.) In September 1955 President Eisenhower gave the program the highest national priority. Some attribute this imbalance to the airmen's bias toward aircraft. This has an element of truth, as aircraft represented a known technology and demonstrated weapon of war, but can be easily overem- phasized. Curtis LeMay, the epitome of a bomber general, held a cautious yet realistic view. "I consider an ICBM with capability of instantaneous launch and with acceptable reliability, accuracy and yield," he wrote in November 1955, "to be the ultimate weapon in the strategic inventory."4 In the interim, however, he saw missiles as aids to bombers. LeMay considere