rter decided to buy only the stealth bomber, although Rockwell was allowed to build and test four bomber looked like, and had 85 percent common construction with, the B-1A. The U.S. Air Force accepted one hundred B-1Bs that now form the bulk of the bomber portion of the American nuclear triad. Note that the wings are swept fully back for maximum speed. (National Museum of the USAF) B-1As. Carter's decision did not end the matter, however, as lobbying by industry and the Air Force continued. In October 1981 President Ronald Reagan revisited the decision and announced a plan to signifi- cantly bolster American nuclear forces that included the USAF's two new bomber pro- gram along with one hundred MX ICBMs and Trident II SLBMs. The United States also continued to develop both the SRAM II and advanced cruise missile, which would increase the lethality of the bombers. The B-1B looked like the cancelled "A" model with 85 percent of its airframe common. There were significant changes, however. Rockwell beefed up the airframe, which added four tons and permitted the 279 bomber to carry additional fuel and ord- nance, and that increased maximum takeoff weight from 395,000 to 477,000 pounds. The builder also simplified the engine inlets, which, coupled with a redesign of the for- ward engine nacelles and the use of radar- absorbing materials (RAM), reduced the aircraft's radar signature to one-tenth that of the "A" model.2 These changes reduced top speed at high altitudes to Mach 1.25 while increasing the maximum low-level speed from Mach .85 to Mach .92, an adjustment long overdue in view of the vulnerability of flying at high altitudes in SAM country and SAC's low-level penetration tactics. Rockwell also reconfigured the bomb bays.3 The B-1B first flew in October 1984 and became operational in October 1986. SAC received one hundred of these bombers, the last of which was delivered in April 1988.  280 CHAPTER 11 STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT INTO THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY The B-1 con