l April 1943, four hundred in August, and seven hundred in November. The third difficulty emerged when antisubmarine operations were granted top priority in late October 1942, a position held until June 1943. This campaign siphoned off bombing units to fly maritime reconnaissance and redirected the aim of the bombers to submarine pens on the French coast, even though their 11.5- foot roofs and 8-foot walls were impervious to American bombs. Consequently, while the bombing badly damaged the surround- ing area and killed French civilians, it only inconvenienced the Germans, who moved all of the operations into the sub pens. Grand Admiral Karl Doenitz commented in May 1943 that the French "towns of St. Nazaire and Lorient have been rubbed out as main submarine bases. No dog nor cat is left in these towns. Nothing but the sub- marine shelters remain."5 Likewise attacks on the submarine industry had little impact on U boat production. The most signifi- cant contribution of air power to the Battle After their first fourteen missions the Americans were confident of their ability to conduct strategic bombing operations with both accuracy (Eaker believed getting 40 percent of bombs within fifteen hundred feet of the target) and minimal losses. Their optimism was fueled by the fact that AAF bombing accuracy was superior to what had been seen thus far in the theater. The Eighth's commander also thought he could attack anywhere in Germany with accept- able losses (4 percent) if he had a force of three hundred bombers over the target. The  CHAPTER 5 U.S. STRATEGIC BOMBING IN EUROPE 107 system, and the undermining of the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened."7 The leaders listed the target priorities as German submarine construction yards, aircraft industry, transportation, oil, and other war industrial targets. It is important to emphasize that bombing was not intended to win the war alone but to be a partner in the