ngton, atomic plant, that delayed the atomic bomb) and few casualties (one woman and five children killed in Oregon). The contrast with the AAF bombing campaign is striking. Summary The American airmen got the best bomber of the war into action quickly as they overcame developmental and operational difficulties. Paradoxically the aircraft's two major innovations, cabin pressurization and remote-controlled armament, were less important in the campaign against Japan than the bomber's range and, most of all, its versatility. It proved most effective in low- level night incendiary bombing and mine laying, tasks not considered during its design. The B-29s dropped 156,000 tons of bombs and mines against the Japanese. In contrast to the prewar theory and opera- tions in Europe, two-thirds of the bomb tonnage consisted of incendiaries and almost three-quarters of these missions were flown at night. The destruction was immense: 178 square miles of urban area, twice the 79 square miles of urban area destroyed in Germany, and 56 square miles of Tokyo, compared to 10 square miles of Berlin. The bombing killed more than a quarter million Japanese, probably closer to one-third of a million. The chief precision target of the B-29s was the aircraft industry on which it dropped 9 percent of its total tonnage. Dam- age to Japanese industry was high, but pro- duction was also hurt by the blockade and the belated effort to disperse the factories. By July 1945 Japanese production was one- third to half, oil refining was less than 15 percent, electrical power and coal consump- tion was half, aircraft airframe production was 40 percent, and aircraft engines were 25 percent of peak output. The Superfort's mining effort con- sisted of 6 percent of the unit's tonnage, over twelve thousand mines weighing just under nine thousand tons. Fifteen bombers went down in this effort. The aerial mining accounted for 63 percent of the Japanese merchant ships destroyed during its dura- tion from March t