."20 The Germans did better with strategic missiles; at least this effort cost fewer German lives. The V-1 (Buzz Bomb) Campaign The German strategic bomber effort was much smaller and much less effective than the one waged by the British and American air forces. Yet the Germans surpassed the Western Allies by introducing two new strategic weapons into combat, winged and ballistic surface-to-surface missiles. The V-1 in a terminal dive over London. The cheap, pulsejet- powered missile proved ineffective militarily, but it had a great psychological impact and cost the Allied defense four times more than the German's offensive. (USAF) 59 The V-weapons allowed bombardment from a distance, day or night, fair weather or foul. Both missiles proved to be spectacular and innovative, but neither affected the outcome of the war. Decades later both concepts would develop into bomber rivals as well as bomber munitions. tested the V-1 airframe, followed that same month with a ground-launched powered flight. In May 1943 the Germans ordered both the V-1 andV-2 into full production. The V-1 showed its potential that July by impacting half a mile from its target over a 152-mile range, a fluke in view of later performance. Problems would be one of the costs of the missile's rapid and concur- rent development; by the end of July only one-third of eighty-four air- and ground- launched missiles tests were successful. Another issue was accuracy. The manufac- turer had expected that 90 percent of the missiles would impact within 6 miles of the target and achieve a circle error propable (CEP) of 1.85 miles, but the results were disappointing.21 Of thirty missiles fired in April 1944, nine crashed shortly after launch and the rest hit within eighteen miles of the aiming point, but only ten within six miles. The first German V-weapon was a small, pilotless aircraft with various designations, although best known as the V-1. Such weap- ons had been proposed as early as World War I, but problems