s most serious challenge during the infamous "Revolt of the Admirals" incident, the most egregious example of interservice rivalry in U.S. history. The primary issue was funding, although the overall nuclear strategy, the condition of the naval air arm, and the capabilities of the B-36 were significant issues. The cancellation of the Navy's new supercarrier in April 1949 ignited the fracas. The two services squared off over the interpretation of the lessons from World War II strategic bombing experience and The two services were battling over turf. On its part the USAF believed and feared that the Navy was intruding on its strategic air mission, which was the basis of its exis- tence. The Navy fanned the airmen's fears when in September 1946 a specially config- ured twin-engine Lockheed P2V Neptune naval patrol aircraft (the Truculent Turtle) flew 11,200 miles nonstop and unrefueled from Perth, Australia, to Columbus, Ohio. 15 The Navy modified a dozen P2Vs to carry a nuclear weapon and in April 1948 made a carrier takeoff. The sea service was also developing the AJ-1 bomber, which could carry a nuclear weapon and was modifying its three Midway-class carriers to operate heavier bombers that would allow nuclear operations. The Navy was thinking in terms of naval targets, targets on the periphery of the Soviet Union, and did not want to be shut off from nuclear weapons. Of course this looked different to the USAF. The Navy also feared it would lose naval aviation to an independent air force. Cer- tainly the Air Force wanted control of all land-based aircraft, including naval patrol bombers and antisubmarine reconnaissance aircraft. These issues were overblown by zealots on both sides. The U.S. Navy disputed the USAF on issues concerning strategic bombardment. In 1946 Cdr. Thomas Davies (seen here as RADM) commanded the Lockheed P2V Truculent Turtle, which flew nonstop and unrefueled over 11,200 miles from Australia to Ohio. Later, P2Vs were launched off of aircraft ca