ot been hit earlier. The operation was remarkable for the successful bombing and low losses as well as its rare joint air effort. As a result of high losses the USAF stopped the deep, daylight bomber attacks and transitioned to night bombing. Monthly night sorties exceeded day sorties for the first time in November 1951 and from then on essentially all B-29 bombing was done at night. Night bombing thwarted the Com- munists for about a year, but the defenders had the advantage between November 1952 and January 1953. Although the USAF had little night bombing experience, it responded with more ECM, glossy paint on the bomb- ers' undersurfaces, flash suppressors on their .50s, tactics that varied altitudes and direction of the bomb run, and night fighter escorts.23 While strategic bombing was rare during the Korean War, two campaigns deserve note. Early in 1952 the USAF proposed to pressure the enemy to end the war by bomb ing the North Korean electric power system, a target set neglected in World War II, an error highlighted in the USSBS critique of the European bombing, and thus far pro- tected by political restraints. (The Sui-Ho facility, the world's fourth largest generating facility, which supplied half of its electric- ity to China, was on the Yalu River, the border between Korea and China.) While Gen. Matthew Ridgway, the overall com- mander, would not approve this plan, when he rotated in May, his successor, Gen. Mark Clark, did. In June President Truman and the JCS approved the attack on Sui-Ho. The second campaign was waged in May and June 1953 against North Korean irriga- tion dams. The breaching of these dams would cause great destruction from flood- ing as well as threaten the North Korean rice supply, 70 percent of which required irrigation. The airmen began planning an attack on twenty dams in February 1953, but when Gen. Otto Weyland, commander of Far East Air Forces, was briefed, he reportedly was "skeptical of the feasibility On May 13 fifty-nine F-8