ot. The bomber reached a top speed of Mach 2.2 at altitude and Mach .85 at low level and could carry 277  STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT INTO THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY CHAPTER 11 278 deployed the Hound Dog and SRAM on its bombers, these were conceived as aiding bomber penetration as they lacked range and accuracy. In contrast the ALCM offered both greater range and accuracy, albeit at subsonic speeds, as well as greater numbers per carrier. A standoff force that would not have to penetrate increasingly potent air defenses would cost less and be more survivable than a penetrating one. Advocates of the penetrating bomber argued it could deliver a heavier bomb load more accurately and would be able to hit mobile targets as well as targets that survived a first strike. In addition they emphasized that a penetra- tor would have a man in the loop and that it was recallable and reusable. Further, the penetrating bombers forced the Soviets to spend many times the bombers' cost on defense, and due to the difference in the size of the U.S. and Soviet economies, this was a much greater burden on the Soviets than on the Americans. Finally they noted that under the arms treaty counting rules there was an advantage for penetrators over standoff bombers. The second challenge was financial. Some accuse the Air Force of keeping two sets of books to conceal the cost escalation. In fact most of this increase was due to inflation and overall the B-1's cost rise was reasonable when compared to other bombers. The third issue was technical. These centered on the defensive avionics that were complicated, costly, did not work adequately, and, most of all, did not stay ahead of the threat. 12.5 tons of munitions in each of its three weapons bays. Four men manned the air- craft, which carried only ECM for defense. The bomber featured two innovations that improved performance, a blending of the wing into the fuselage, which brought the advantages of both aerodynamics and radar reduction, and two small m