F first tested this 6-pound device in early 1942, and in tests in mid-1943 against replica German and Japanese villages, it demonstrated not only that it was the most effective fire bomb but also the vulnerability of Japanese urban areas. While there were some questions about the validity of these tests-the climate in Utah is much drier than that in Japan-additional tests at Eglin Field, Florida, in April 1944 confirmed the fire bomb's effectiveness. The result was a military debacle. The defenders of the islands were reinforced, but with too little, too late. The first B-17s arrived at Clark Field in mid-September, with the projected bomber force of about 165, essentially all of America's Flying For- tresses, scheduled to be in position in Febru- ary or March 1942. It was a major bluff or gamble because the B-17s could reach only southern Japan and bases, bombs, and air defenses in the Philippines were inadequate. In mid-November army chief George Marshall held a secret press briefing in which he stated that the United States was on the brink of war with Japan. He went on to assert America's intention to fight a merciless war that would include immedi- ate use of B-17s "to set the paper cities of Japan on fire."8 Civilians would not be spared; this would be all-out war. He stated that negotiations were in progress to obtain bomber bases in both China and Siberia and that bombing alone could defeat Japan. The press, undoubtedly encouraged by Marshall's interview, ran stories of American inten- tions to bomb Japan from bases in Alaska, Prewar air plans for strategic bombing (AWPD/1 of September 1941) only briefly mentioned the Pacific theater. The follow- ing plan (AWPD/42 in 1942) gave it more attention, but these plans mirrored those drawn up against Germany. It was not until February 1943 that the planners looked at  CHAPTER 6 RAZING JAPAN fire raids on Japanese cities as a possibil- ity, although there were questions over the legitimacy of such attacks. By June 1