their aid to the insurgents in the south. The objectives of the bombing campaign were set out in a March 1965 memo from Assistant Secretary of Defense John McNaughton to Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara that stated that the pur- pose of Rolling Thunder was to (1) reduce North Vietnamese will, (2) improve the morale of the South Vietnamese, (3) provide a bargaining chip, (4) reduce North Viet- namese infiltration, and (5) show the world U.S. determination to help an ally. Seen here in November 1961 are (left to right) USAF Chief of Staff Curtis LeMay, Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Lyman Leminitzer. McNamara served in this position under President Kennedy and President Johnson and was perhaps the country's most active, strongest, and most controversial secretary of defense. In war and peace, LeMay was the epitome of strategic bombing. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) 217 Rolling Thunder The air war in Vietnam was long and enormous, during which the United States dropped almost two and half times the bomb tonnage in Southeast Asia as it did in World War II and Korea, and about the same ton- nage on North Vietnam as on Germany and Japan. Paradoxically the United States' major strategic weapon, the B-52, was used in South Vietnam against tactical targets, while fighter-bombers, F-105s and F-4s, were used in the North. It also should be noted that SAC was against using the B-52s in this war, arguing that this would expose its hardware and tactics to the Communists and diminish its effectiveness in its primary role, nuclear deterrence. American airmen applied air power with advanced technology, consider- able skill, and much courage, yet this effort was thwarted by a third-rate military power. makers feared such actions might provoke a severe Chinese or Soviet response that might turn the conflict into another Korean War-or worse. Second, the Vietnamese Communists had already demonstrated great stamina in enduring t