ot to defeat the Japanese-they were clearly beaten-the problem was to get the Japanese to surrender. The United States conducted a crash program to develop nuclear weapons, fear- ing that the Germans would get them first. They didn't, the Allies did. A number of factors led to the decision to drop atomic bombs on Japanese cities. America was war weary and some speculated that the war could continue for a number of years with horrendous casualties. After the great effort to develop the weapon, there was no good reason, and no advocate, for not using the bomb. The decision makers sought a way to demonstrate the bomb other than destroy- ing a city but could not. Fanatical Japanese resistance on Iwo Jima and Okinawa, their atrocities, kamikazes, attack on Pearl Harbor, and unwillingness to surrender, as well as American racism, were other factors. The Japanese were given a chance by the Pots- dam Declaration, which demanded surren- der and which, if refused, promised "prompt and utter destruction." A few days later the Japanese rejected the ultimatum. The AAF began to modify B-29s for nuclear delivery in late 1943 and the extensive Project Silverplate modifications reduced the aircraft's weight by almost four tons.17 At the same time the nuclear bombs were designed to be carried by a Super- fort, which limited their weight and size. 18 Meanwhile the AAF organized the 509th Composite Group under the command of Lt. Col. Paul Tibbets, who had flown on the initial Eighth Air Force mission in Europe, had considerable combat experience, and been involved in the B-29's development. After training in Utah the unit deployed to Tinian with fifteen Silverplate bombers. The 509th received the core for the ura- nium weapon on July 26 and was ordered to deliver the first bomb on the first visual bombing day after August 3 on one of four targets: Hiroshima, Kokura, Niigata, and Nagasaki. Additional bombs would be dropped on these targets as soon as they were ready. The Americans launc