ed States cautiously added intercontinental missiles to its inventory and initially was more comfortable with cruise rather than ballistic missiles, as they shared many of the characteristics of manned aircraft. With considerable difficulty the USAF developed the tailless, subsonic, ground-launched Northrop Snark. Although reliability and guidance were serious problems, the missile was operational for a USAF The incoming Kennedy administration pushed in a different direction to better counter nonconventional (guerrilla) and lower level conventional warfare, a policy other than an "all-or-nothing" nuclear response that became known as "flex- ible response."This led to an emphasis on counterinsurgency warfare, a buildup of conventional forces (increasing by a quarter of a million men), and a shift in U.S. nuclear policy. In June 1962 Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara gave a speech in Ann Arbor, Michigan, that set out a policy of not attacking cities but instead attacking enemy military forces; it came to be known as the "counterforce strategy." But pushed by financial factors as well as strategic ones, in short order (December 1963) this developed into a policy that emphasized deterrence over counterforce. By the mid-1960s U.S. war policy called for both inflicting "unacceptable" damage on Russian industry and population ("assured destruction") in Cruise Missiles The first attempts with strategic missiles were winged missiles, or pilotless aircraft, what have become known as cruise missiles. The Americans had a long acquaintance with these devices. During World War I the Army and Navy had separate programs that produced a "flying bomb," a piston-powered, unmanned aircraft. Both services continued minor efforts with the concept between the wars. The Army Air Forces tested another device (General Motors A-1) into mid- 1943, again with little success. There were other experiments with radio-controlled aircraft during the war and some combat trials. The Navy tested dro