ulnerable at low altitudes, and the Convair speedster had problems at low level, where it would be forced to operate. One source claims the aircraft flew one reconnaissance mission over Cuba during the October 1962 Missile Crisis. In December 1965 Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara ordered the Hustler out of service by July 1970. The reasons given were the aircraft's problems, the prospect of the oncoming FB-111, modernization of the B-52, and the introduction of solid-fuel ballistic missiles. Ironically, after its longtime opposition to the Hustler, SAC wanted it retained. That was not to be. In November 1969 the first bomber went to the bone yard, where all were located by the end of January 1971, having served fewer than ten years. The B-58 was an innovative aircraft that added little positive to America's stra- tegic force, was dangerous to operate, and expensive to buy and keep in service. Supersonic Failure turned out to be a technical wonder that has mesmerized the public with its dazzling performance-which obscures the fact that it was a failure. In March 1953 SAC wrote Headquar- ters Air Force that the new bomber could embody "the longest range, highest altitude, and greatest speed (in that order of priority), capable of attainment in the time period under consideration."27 In July 1955 the Air Force proposed six contractors for consid- eration, of which only Boeing and North American submitted proposals and both were granted contracts in November. To achieve the desired range, both manufactur- ers came up with a "floating wing tip," that is, disposable wings outboard of the fixed wing. LeMay wryly commented, "This is not an airplane. This is a three plane forma- tion."28 The Air Force rejected the submis- sion in March 1956. The requirements at the time of the final competition in 1957 were a speed of Mach 3 to 3.2, an altitude of seventy to seventy-five thousand feet, and If the B-58 was a troubled bomber that did not satisfy SAC, the B-70 was exactly w