an operation called Thunderclap concluded it was unlikely to succeed at the time, but that the option should remain open. In October the airmen considered a major daylight strategic and tactical air effort against the Ruhr aiming at both material and morale. This plan was also dropped but then in late January 1945 a similar plan against German morale surfaced, in this instance to capitalize on the great westward flow of refugees by dropping twenty-five thousand tons of bombs in four days on Berlin. Such an attack was also seen as having a positive military and political impact on the Rus- sians. On his part, Harris suggested that the operation be extended to similar blows against Chemnitz, Leipzig, and Dresden. This concept found favor at the highest RAF level, although there were some reser- vations because of the distance from British bases, the need to consult with the Soviets, and the belief that oil was a better target. Despite some of his earlier statements and his later position, Winston Churchill applied pressure to bomb these German cities. These attacks were now framed around hamper- ing German troop movements. British and American airmen decided in late January that oil should continue as the top priority 97 Ding in Europe but that Berlin, Leipzig, and Dresden would be hit when their destruction would cause great confusion among civilian evacuees and thus hamper German military movement. The change in priorities was not discussed by the Combined Chiefs of Staff (CCS) nor mentioned to the Soviets at the February 1945 Yalta Conference. However, the Rus- sians did ask that the Germans be prevented from moving reinforcements to the eastern front and suggested that bombers "paralyze" Berlin and Leipzig. As discussed below, the AAF hit Berlin on February 3, 1945. Ten days later Dresden was destroyed. it contained war industries and was a communications hub. The substantial death and destruction in Dresden resulted from a lack of air defenses, little previous da