ess by the bombing than by other factors. The original German plans called for the V-1 offensive to begin in mid-December 1943 with the monthly production rate reaching eight thousand V-1s by September. But by April 61 1944 the Germans had only three thousand missiles because of production and technical difficulties. The Germans fired the first V-1s against Britain on the night of June 12-13, a week after the D day invasion. The pace of the attack quickly picked up, with the five hundredth launched by June 18, the one thousandth by June 21, the two thousandth by June 29, and the five thousandth by July 22. The V-1 assault battered the war weary Britons of (mainly) London. Production fell by 25 percent, and perhaps as many as 1.5 million Londoners evacuated the city, more than during the Blitz, leading some to believe that the V-weapons had a greater impact on civilian morale than the bomb- ings of 1940-41. These attacks continued until the first days of September, when the Allied ground advance forced the last V-1 unit to withdraw from France. One sure way to prevent missile attacks is to push their bases outside the range of their targets. Germans readjusted their aim. The British shut off a potential source of intelligence to the Germans in July by banning addresses of the deceased in obituary notices because clusters of deaths would indicate missile impacts. The Luftwaffe used other methods to locate the missiles' impact points. Efforts with seismographic and underwater micro- phones failed. The GAF also fitted 7 percent of the V-1s fired between June 15 and August 1 with radio devices that transmit- ted during the last thirty-five miles of flight and could be tracked by direction finding units. (By March 1945 half of the V-1s were so equipped.) While this information may have been too crude to adjust the firings, it did correctly indicate that the impact points were mainly east and south of Tower Bridge. The Allies continued to bomb German facilities. The Allied