minate the narrative, as their significance deserves and demands. Coverage of U.S. aspects is based mainly on primary sources, with the exception of World War I, while coverage of non-U.S. aspects is drawn from secondary sources. The notes for each chapter (see the Source Notes) begin with a bibliographic discussion that pinpoints the most important (but not all) sources used. The notes refer chiefly to quoted material. So to the basic question: Has strategic bombardment fulfilled its promise?  Chapter 1 The Early Years through World War I FIRST STEPS 46 n the summer of 1783 the Montgolfier brothers launched an unoccupied hot air balloon, and that September they repeated the feat, this time with a balloon that trav- eled a mile and a half carrying a sheep, a rooster, and a duck. The first manned free flight took place in November 1783, lasted twenty-five minutes, and crossed over five miles of Paris. A decade later, the French, clearly leaders in this field, established a balloon force, and in 1794 their armies employed captive balloons as a reconnaissance platform. Napoleon, however, disdained new technology and abolished the unit in 1802. The next combat application of ballooning was seen in August 1849, when the Austrians used small hot air balloons to drop 30-pound bombs (ineffectively) on besieged Vienna. During the American Civil War both sides employed balloons but abandoned them before the war's end. During the Franco- Prussian War, the French flew sixty-six balloons out of encircled Paris. Others were used by the British in the Sudan (1882), Bechuanaland (1884), and the Boer War (1899) and by Americans in Cuba (1898). Heavier-than-air craft did not appear until the twentieth century. These offered numerous advantages over the lighter- than-air craft as well as technical challenges. Power was one of the challenges. Steam and electric power were unsuitable, and only toward the end of the nineteenth century did the internal combustion engine present a viable p