ized to allow successful bombing operations. The plan also suggested immediate efforts to develop a long-range escort fighter. The airmen held out the 99  CHAPTER 5 U.S. STRATEGIC BOMBING IN EUROPE prospect that "if the air offensive is success- ful, a land offensive may not be necessary."1 Earlier in March 1941 the United States and Britain met and agreed to a number of points that would determine how the Western Allies would fight the war. The America-Britain-Canada agreement called for a "Germany first" policy and a "sustained air offensive" to weaken the Germans before an eventual invasion. America went to war with strategic bombing as a clear part of its victory plan. The Fortress and Liberator Unlike the British, who used a number of medium and heavy bomber types in their strategic bombing offensive against Ger- many, the AAF employed just two. The more famous of these, probably the best known of all of America's strategic bombers, was the Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress. Certainly it deserves special recognition as the first modern heavy bomber of the 1930s and for its record in World War II. The Fort was well regarded as a reliable, rugged, forgiving, and honest aircraft that did its job well with young and inexperienced flyers and got most back from danger. The Fortress emerged from a 1934 competition for a multiengine bomber that could carry a one-ton bomb load a minimum of one thousand miles (possibly twenty-two hundred) at a top speed of 124406 The All American (B-17F) survived a midair collision with a German fighter over North Africa and made it home, but after landing its aft section collapsed. The B-17 was renowned for its ruggedness and ability to bring its crew home and thus was highly regarded by its crews. (USAF via Boeing) 200-250 mph. The Boeing entry first flew in July 1935. (The Fort's quality is evident in that it was still in front-line service over Europe a decade later alongside the younger Lancaster and Liberator.) The four-engine Boeing bom