January 1961. Although its top speed was listed at 1,000 knots, it set one record at 1,133 knots. It can be argued that the B-70 has garnered more attention than any other experimental U.S. jet and many operational aircraft. SAC wanted this supersonic, high-altitude, long-range bomber, but before it was ready, surface-to-air U.S. AIR FORCE EOK missiles made it highly vulnerable. The Mach 3 B-70 was an expensive technological wonder that had no military utility. Note the bomber's canards and downturned wing tips. (National Museum of the USAF) 20001 SAC was not enthusiastic about the speedy bomber, LeMay in June 1957 point- ing out that it was not substantially superior to the B-52. Analysis concluded that the penetration ability and thus attrition of the two bombers would be about the same, but the B-52 could carry a greater bomb load farther. The range factor weighed heavy because air-to-air refueling was considered unreliable and costly. On the other hand the B-58 would replace the obsolete B-47 and complicate Soviet air defenses. The USAF planned to buy 290 B-58s but in the end got 116. President Dwight Eisenhower noted in his 1959 state of the union address that the bomber literally cost its weight in gold, clearly much more costly to buy and operate than SAC's previous bombers. The Hustler reached the command in August 1960 but did not become combat ready for two more years. The USAF got a fast and trouble- some bomber that had some dangerous and deadly characteristics. At high angles of attack it could pitch up and enter an uncontrollable spin. Landing was compli- cated by high landing speeds and a landing The B-58 did not see service in the Vietnam War. It lacked a conventional bomb capability, the USAF had other air- craft to do the job, its wing tanks would be vulnerable at low altitudes, and the Convair speedster had problems at low level, where it would be forced to operate. One source claims the aircraft flew one reconnaissance mission over Cuba during th