n it became technically feasible, a measure reluctantly signed by President Clinton. The George W. Bush administration went further, abro- gating the ABM Treaty in June 2002 and authorizing deployment of ABMs to Alaska and California; they became operational in 2006. Midway in the first decade of the new century the United States proposed deploy- ment of ABMs to Europe, specifically to the two new NATO members, the Czech Republic and Poland. This action was osten- sibly prompted by efforts of Iran to develop nuclear weapons and a delivery system. In addition the U.S. Navy began BMD patrols with Aegis-class destroyers in September 2004 and activated a ballistic missile defense system in June 2006. The American BMD effort has created international criticism,  us 276 CHAPTER 10 Chapter 11 Strategic Bombardment into the Twenty-first Century principally in a resurgent Russia,25 and unhappiness among some America's allies. At the same time other American allies feel threatened by the proliferation of missiles and weapons of mass destruction (WMD). As the first decade of the twenty-first century draws to a close the world order is in turmoil, still adjusting to the post-Cold War realities. The demise of the Russians as a superpower leaves the United States as the world's sole superpower to face a changed world balance of power, a new international situation, and new threats. While there is only one superpower, China is growing in power and assertiveness. Further, the growing energy crisis is empowering a number of old and new powers, specifically allowing Russia to reassert itself. Meanwhile the more imme- diate concern is the proliferation of WMD and delivery systems, the failure of the inter- national community to control the situation, the emergence of worldwide terrorism, and the rise of small, aggressive nation states. What role strategic weapons and BMD will play in this environment remains to be seen. However, these concerns will focus attention on the issue of stra