ded. In the late 1950s the Air Force sought a long-range, air-launched ballistic missile, and in May 1959 Douglas won the contract. The GAM-87A Skybolt was a 5.5-ton, two-stage ballistic missile that featured a star tracker navigation system and combined supersonic speed, with long range (1,150 miles) and a 1.2-megaton warhead. The Air Force planned to buy twelve hundred of these missiles and mount two under each wing of a B-52H.The USAF made the production decision in February 1960 and slatted it to become operational in 1964. The British ordered one hundred Skybolts for their Vulcan bombers in June 1960. The missile failed its first five launch attempts and proved costly and troublesome. Progress with ballistic missile along with its high cost and growing questions about bomber utility led President Kennedy to cancel the project in December 1962. (The administration was embarrassed when the missile had its first successful flight on the day the termination was announced.) The cancellation caused a considerable diplomatic row with the Brit- ish who understandably were disappointed, The Air Force had a somewhat better experience with its next ASM proj- ect, which began in March 1956. North American won the contract in August 1957, and the next February the program was accelerated in the wake of the Sputnik launches. The weapon was named Hound Dog after the Elvis Presley song of the day and designated GAM-77, then AGM-28. The weapon was large, heavy (five tons), and had an unusual delta-wing and canard configuration. Powered by a jet engine mounted beneath the rear fuselage, it could reach a speed of Mach 2.1 and 650 nm from a high-altitude launch, and 340 nm from a low altitude. The missile was guided by an inertial system that gave it an accuracy of no better than 1 nm, which was not that significant since the missile carried a 4-megaton warhead. The B-52 could carry two of these weapons mounted on pylons between the fuselage and inboard engines, and use the missil