t to jam the German plot- ting radar (Wurzburg), a process known as Shiver. (In turn the Germans homed in on British IFF, until the RAF learned of the German technique through broken Ger- man codes, Ultra, and terminated Shiver in January 1944.) At that same time the British began active measures (Tinsel) to interfere with German radio traffic. The Luftwaffe responded with very high frequency (VHF) radios in March 1943, to which the British answered with Cigar in July, a ground-based system effective out to a range of 140 miles. In October 1943 Bomber Command intro- duced Airborne Cigar, which overcame the range limitation. In April the British also began using a ground-based system (Gro- cer) to jam German interceptor radios, later supplemented by an aerial version known as Airborne Grocer. These devices forced the GAF to change its control procedures from the box system and ground-controlled intercept (GCI) to the "running commen- tary" system, which brought new challenges and new countermeasures. In October 1943 British ground stations began transmitting (Corona) false instructions in idiomatic German and were prepared when the German began using female operators. The GAF then used commercial radio stations (Anna Marie) to transmit announcements and broadcast music that designated cities under attack (for example, waltz music indicated Vienna). The best known, longest lasting, and simplest ECM devices employed was called Window by the British, Chaff by the Americans, and Duppel by the Germans. Aircraft dropped stripes of aluminum foil cut to half the wave length of enemy radar (similar to Christmas tree tinsel) to produce radar images that complicated the task of radar operators. Its development and delayed employment clearly illustrates the dilemma of balancing offensive and defensive aerial needs. Both the British and Germans knew of the device's impact on radar, but both resisted using it, fearing that their oppo- nent would benefit more than themselves. Altho