ed the first Titan II in March 1962 and, unlike so many other missiles, got it right the first time with a flawless five-thousand-mile flight. It achieved operational status in March 1963, and fifty-four served for a quarter of a century until the last was deactivated in the summer of 1987. They were later employed as space boosters. also developing shorter range ballistic mis- siles that would serve in a strategic role. The genesis of the intermediate-range ballistic missile program was the February 1955 Kil- lian committee report, which recommended ICBMs and pushed the development of both land-based IRBMs sited in Europe and sea-based IRBMs stationed off the Soviet coasts as a response to similar developments in Russia. In November 1955 the Depart- ment of Defense authorized development of the Thor, a land-based missile by the Air Force, and the Jupiter, a land- and sea-based system by the Army and Navy. (The Navy, concerned about the danger of liquid-fueled missiles and desiring autonomy, withdrew from the program in 1956, and went on to develop its own solid-propellant ballistic missiles as described below.) In November 1956 the secretary of defense granted the Air Force responsibility for all surface- launched missiles with a range over two hundred miles, which should have ended the Army program. However, the Army successfully pleaded its case, undoubtedly aided by the woes of the Thor program. The following January the IRBM programs were elevated to the same development priority as the ICBM, generating USAF fears that its ICBM effort would be diluted. Some assert that the twin IRBMs were a creature of interservice rivalry, others that the effort was favored more by the politicians and scientists than by the military and builders. The major factor behind the IRBM was the desire to get a nuclear-armed ballistic missile into service as rapidly as possible to reassure both the American public and American allies. Both programs built on the progress of other missil