nd Pacific theaters between 1959 and 1969. (USAF) controlled and recoverable, and it featured a canard and delta wing. On twenty-seven flights it reached a top speed of Mach 2.05. The follow-on full-scale XSM-64, named Navaho, substituted two ramjets for the tur- bojets and added a seventy-six-foot booster beneath the missile, allowing a vertical launch. It did not do as well as its predeces- sor. A multitude of problems, affecting about everything except the airframe, caused con- siderable delays. After eleven failed attempts the missile was able to fly just over four and a half minutes in March 1957. Little wonder the Air Force cancelled the project that July. Testing continued after the cancellation which saw the missile exceed Mach 3 and remain aloft forty-two minutes. Why this dismal story? As with the Snark, the program could not produce the prom- ised performance, reliability was awful, and cost overruns and schedule slippages proved fatal. Immature technology along with poor management were responsible for these fail- ures. The delays put the cruise missiles into direct competition with ballistic missiles, a contest in which they could not compete. In the end these long-range cruise missiles proved inferior to both the bomber and bal- listic missile. In fairness the country did ben- efit from the $800 million Navaho project, gaining, among other benefits, new materials and manufacturing techniques demanded by the aerodynamic heating at high speeds, the booster engines used in a number of ballistic 241  242 CHAPTER 10 missiles, and the inertial auto navigation sys- tem employed in the Hound Dog, Nautilus submarine, and Navy A3J. The shorter range Martin Matador was more successful. It was developed in response to an August 1945 AAF require- ment for a surface-to-surface missile with a range of 175 to 500 miles at 600 mph. Martin won a study contract in March 1946. The project survived several cutbacks that eliminated other programs and received top priority i