iefs of Staff on January 21, 1943, that called for "the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial and economic In early 1943 Eaker adapted an opera- tional plan based on half a year's combat experience. It stated that the unit believed it needed eight hundred aircraft to be able to dispatch three hundred per mission, the minimum able to fend off GAF fighters. As this force built up and trained it intended to operate under heavy fighter cover, a period it anticipated would extend until the end of July 1943, when it should have nine hundred bombers. Only two deep penetrations were planned, against the Ploesti oil facilities and the bearings plants in Schweinfurt. Between July and October the Eighth would focus three-quarters of its attention on fighter fac- tories and repair installations and the remain- der on submarine yards. After October the force would grow to about twelve hundred bombers and extend its scope of targets; it would then build to a peak of twenty-seven hundred bombers by March 1944 as it pre- pared for the Normandy invasion. The CCS approved this plan in May 1943. In the first half of 1943 the Eighth dra- matically built up its strength, made deeper penetrations into Germany, and suffered increased losses. The shorter missions were escorted by the range-limited Spitfires until May, when the longer range P-47s joined the fray. On April 17 AAF aircraft hit the aircraft factory at Bremen and lost sixteen bombers, 15 percent of those that attacked the target. By the end of July the Eighth was dispatching over three hundred bombers and suffering even heavier losses; whereas it has lost 5.9 percent during the first half of the year, on the last six missions of July it lost 9.9 percent.10 The Luftwaffe Adapts to American Daylight Tactics To bolster their fighter numbers the Ger- mans increased fighter production and redeployed units to homeland defense. These measures increased single-engine fighters in the West from 500 in