ctories, so that only key plants had to be destroyed to cripple the entire economy, what later would be called the "bottleneck" or "strategic web" theory. The last point was the crux of what became the distinctive U.S. strategic bombing theory. The American strategic bombing theory appeared in the early 1930s concurrent with rapidly advancing aviation technol- ogy that produced the equipment needed for strategic operations and that gave the A second idea that made the American bombing theory unique was what came to be called the "industrial web" concept: Destroying key elements of a nation's economy would be decisive. Early on American airmen shared the views of their European contemporaries, who saw cities, people, and factories as correct targets. In 1926, however, an airman instructing at the Tactical School wrote that only key plants had to be destroyed, an idea that came to dominate. The lure of greater efficiency in terms of greater results that required fewer  CHAPTER 2 THE INTERWAR YEARS aircraft, crews, and bombs along with lesser overall casualties were critical factors. If these bottleneck targets could be identified and then destroyed, the bombing proponents believed a nation's ability to fight would be broken and the civilian life so disrupted that an enemy would be forced to surrender. This concept was reinforced when deliveries of a new aircraft were delayed. Investigation revealed that a flood at the sole manufac- turer of the springs used in the controllable- pitch propeller had stopped production, an example instructors at the Tactical School used in their lectures during the early 1930s. The airmen attempted to identify these bottleneck targets during the interwar years and, for example, noted such targets as transportation, steel, and electric power in the lectures given during the 1933-34 school year at the Tac School. As the airmen studied the U.S. economy for other clues to economic bottlenecks, they added finance, utilities, raw materials, oi