pital located behind the barracks. Its next appear- ance would be much more successful. 285 Arab world, dictate Middle East policy, and control the world's oil supply. Following a failed and costly war against Iran, in August 1990 he invaded and took over oil-rich Kuwait.10 The international community, aided by the demise of the Soviet Union in 1991 and with it the end of the Cold War, called for his withdrawal. After Iraq refused, an international coalition applied diplomatic pressure as it fielded a military force. It faced a large, experienced Iraqi military armed with modern equipment that many feared included nuclear, biological, and chemical (NBC) weapons.11 The 1991 Gulf War For the four decades after World War II the United States prepared for two kinds of war, a nuclear conflict and a major ground war in Western Europe. Neither materialized, instead America engaged in two limited wars in Asia that proved less than successful. The reputation of America's military suffered greatly as a result of the loss in Vietnam, racial strife, drug problems, overpriced and under- performing weapons, and at best lackluster results in subsequent operations from Cam- bodia (1975) to Libya (1986). At the same time the military reinvented itself by fielding a smaller force manned by better educated and higher motivated volunteers, armed with expensive, high-technology weapons, and trained with new techniques for a swifter, more daring kind of warfare. It was this force that would engage in its next war in the Middle East against a minor power. This successful war need not detain us beyond strategic air operations. However, two major aspects deserve attention as they changed the way Americans, especially air- men, would wage war. The first, precision- guided munitions (PGMs) had a significant role in the war and have overcome the airman's major obstacle of accuracy, and thus have revolutionized air combat. Air- men made attempts with guided free-fall bombs during World War II a