missiles. Defensive armament initially was to consist of a tail turret mounting a six-barreled 30-mm cannon, but this was displaced by a radar warning device, ECM, and a Chaff and flare dispenser. The bomber encountered problems with the avionics although there were also crew comfort and The breakup of the Soviet Union found the bulk of the Tu-160s (nineteen) in two squadrons stationed in the Ukraine. As the Ukrainians had the Blackjack but neither needed nor could afford it, they began talks with the Russians to make a deal. However, no agreement was reached and scrapping began. There matters stood until NATO took action in Yugoslavia in 1999, prompt- ing resumption of talks and an agreement by which the Ukrainians traded eight Tu-160s (and three Tu-95s), as well as six hundred air-launched missiles, for Russian natural gas. These bombers formed part of the Russian strategic bombing force consisting of one The Soviet effort to match, or supersede, the American B-1 produced the Tu-160. It featured a variable-sweep wing, blended wing and fuselage, and the first Soviet use of fly-by-wire controls. The Blackjack is larger, heavier, and faster than the B-1B but built in smaller numbers. Here it is seen in 1994 in Ukrainian service. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) 213 unit of Blackjacks with fifteen bombers, one of Bears, and three with Backfires. An indication of the state of this force is that in 2000 the average annual flying time of its pilots was a mere ten hours. More recently (2008) the decline in the Russian military appears to have stabilized and perhaps reversed and that the Russians are upgrad- ing their sixteen operational Tu-160s. The press reports that the Russians would like to resume production of the bomber and field a force of thirty by 2025 or 2030. desire to cut costs along with the increasing lethality of defenses (longer range radars and surface-to-air missiles) and the long time to target as compared to the less vulnerable and much faster ball