d dropped to about 45. The unit was involved in shaking down the aircraft while developing combat tactics. Despite the public's perception of an invisible aircraft, the aircraft can be picked up by radar, but at a much-reduced range. Therefore attack planners direct the F-117s around threats. The big question was when the new weapon would be used in combat. According to one source the F-117 was primed for action following both the bombing of the Marine barracks in Beirut in October 1983 and the April 1986 bombing of a Berlin discotheque. Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger reportedly cancelled both strikes an hour before their planned launch. good," the aircraft handled well, thanks to fly-by-wire technology. While it lacked both flaps and speed brakes, some say it was easier to land than the F-16, was a very stable platform, and easy to fly. As with all aircraft there were a number of problems. The engine inlets were prone to icing, a problem solved by adding a wiper with a de-icing spray device. The tailpipe caused considerable difficulties, and then in September 1985 a structural problem emerged when a fin failed in flight after a test pilot side slipped the aircraft near its maximum speed. The company mounted a new fin manufactured out of graphite composite, a fix retrofitted into the entire F-117 fleet. Tactically some saw the stealth aircraft limited to special operations, that is, small, covert operations. The majority view, however, was that the aircraft would be valuable in a full-scale war. The Air Force remained true to its October 1979 Senior Trend Acquisition Plan, which saw the air- craft's mission to be "to confuse, disrupt and destroy the enemy's war making capability. ... The principal targets will be command, control, communications centers, air defense facilities, airfields, logistics choke points, and other targets of high military value."8 The Air Force procured fifty-nine F-117As. Stealth technology had granted penetrating bombers a new leas