ited sig- nificant problems as the flight was cut short due to alarming engine temperatures. In addition the aircraft performed poorly with its top speed 15 percent and range 25 per- cent below requirements. More dramatically, crashes took a terrible toll, destroying four of the first five prototypes between April 1940 and June 1941 and nine preproduction aircraft during trials. Engine fires dogged the aircraft throughout much of its service, prompting the label Luftwaffenfeurzeug (Luft- waffe's lighter), along with a parcel of other unflattering nicknames. Engine lubrication proved inadequate, engine placement dan- gerous, and transmission problems troubling. The plan for remote-controlled guns failed. Little wonder the program suffered contin- ued delays. In the summer of 1941 the Germans deployed thirty-four He 177s to a French based antishipping unit, but within weeks teething problems forced their withdrawal. In a similar manner a dozen He 177s pressed into transport service during the abor- tive German airlift of Stalingrad proved a failure. The GAF transferred these aircraft to bomber duties with little better results, as seven were lost to noncombat causes on only thirteen missions. In 1943 the He 177 returned to the sea war, inflicting limited damage while suffering heavy losses. One notable aspect of these operations was the employment of guided bombs. Daylight operations with the Hs 293 missiles began 57 on November 21, 1943, but proved expen- sive, forcing the GAF to switch to less costly and less effective night operations. The He 177s continued antishipping operations over the Mediterranean into 1944, employing the radio-controlled FX 1400 glide bomb, a 3,500-pound armor-piercing bomb fitted with wings and a cruciform tail. 18 1940 plan for the war excluded Soviet industry from attack, and once the war degenerated into a bloody slugfest, the Ger- mans needed all the air power they could muster to support their beleaguered troops. The only example of st