first data from a Corona reconnaissance satellite, a system authorized in 1956. Satellites were not only invulner- able to Communist defenses but also did not risk pilots or international incidents, and they became increasingly more effective using a variety of sensors. Corona remained operational until 1972. The Range Problem and Solution Clearly one of the airmen's primary prob- lems was range. While this had been of concern in World War II, it was a far greater problem with the Soviet Union as the most likely foe, particularly since the principal U.S. strategic bomber until 1952 was the B-29 with its range of three thousand nauti- cal miles. The airmen considered a number In contrast to the marked improvements in organization, delivery systems, and intel- ligence gathering, plans for employing the strategic bombers were little changed from World War II concepts. Initial U.S. air war  Ulys CHAPTER 7 160 THE POSTWAR ERA of solutions to the problem. One idea was one-way missions, with the hope that after bombing the crews would reach friendly or neutral territory, a remote region, or ditch at sea near friendly vessels. In August 1948, Gen. Earle Partridge stated, “Expend the crew, expend the bomb, expend the airplane all at once. Kiss them goodbye and let them go. That is a pretty cold-blooded point of view, but I believe that it is economically best for the country."7 With leaders consid- ering the deaths of millions of civilians, it is not difficult to understand this attitude.8 A technological solution was to develop the capacity to land and refuel on unprepared airfields, dry lakebeds, or on an Arctic icecap. Kenney suggested fitting bombers with tractor-type landing gear, and the Air Force tested such an apparatus. The airmen found more practical solutions. survival in the event of going down in the inhospitable high latitudes. During World War II the AAF had established an emer- gency landing strip at Thule, Greenland, six hundred miles north of the Arctic Cir