r superiority in the closing months of the war was German rocket and jet-powered fighters. On August 5, 1944, three P-51s were quickly downed by three rocket- powered Me 163s. The delta-winged fighter's exceptional speed (nearly 600 mph compared with the P-51's top speed of about 450 mph) was counterbalanced by its limited endurance, only 2.5 to 8 minutes of powered flight. The Germans built fewer than four hundred and it proved to be a less serious threat than jet-powered fighters. Shuttle bombing looked good on paper and did put distant targets at risk. However, two factors proved more important. First, the key factor in accurate bombing was the weather over the target, not over the bases. Second, effective operations depended on the maintenance and supply structure. The two shuttle attempts, the Regensburg raid and Frantic, convincingly demonstrated the problems. The twin-jet Me 262, although not as fast (540 mph) as the rocket fighter, was a safer aircraft to fly, had greater endur- ance, and mounted heavier armament (four 30-mm guns). Yet efforts to standard- ize on the jet in 1943 were nixed by the bureaucracy and Hitler. The demands of the war and Allied bombing delayed the jet's introduction into the war and limited its deployment. Of fourteen hundred built, no more than a few hundred saw operations. The Luftwaffe's Last Gasp Timing is critical in many aspects of life and often decisive in history. The massive buildup of AAF bombers and fighters and  CHAPTER 5 U.S. STRATEGIC BOMBING IN EUROPE The Germans also pushed a bare-bones jet fighter, the He 162, that could reach a top speed of 522 mph. The Germans planned to build the wooden and metal aircraft in great numbers and operate them off of meadows and highways flown by hastily trained pilots. The plane first flew in December 1944, a mere seventy days after its initiation. Heinkel built about one hundred, although none saw action. The Germans had a clear advantage over the Allies with jet and rocket propul-