ial refuelings. SAC proposed putting a sixteenth of the force on airborne alert, Headquarters USAF wanted one-quarter of the force on airborne alert beginning in July 1960, and the secretary of defense approved an eighth. Airborne alert was not only a costly tactic it also was a dangerous one as the bombers carried nuclear weapons. Inevitably To further protect against a sudden air strike, in July 1960 SAC began the ground alert of a KC-135 equipped and manned as an airborne command post able to control SAC forces in the event that the land-based headquarters were unable to function. In February 1961 these aircraft began continu- ous airborne operations. The number of such aircraft increased in April 1962, when three auxiliary commands were put into service. SAC took further steps to ensure communications in the event of a nuclear war, putting three Blue Scout rockets on alert in July 1963 that carried a prerecorded force execution message as a payload. In late 1967 they were replaced by Minuteman II missiles fitted with a communications pack- age that could transmit control messages to SAC forces. A further innovation was dem- onstrated in April 1967, when an airborne 235 command plane successfully launched a Minuteman missile. Another effort to protect the retalia- tory force was to provide radar warn- ing of hostile threats. SAC believed that an extra ten minutes of warning would increase the percentage of bombers it could get airborne from 14 to 66 percent. Radars deployed within and off the coast of the United States to protect targets in the continental United States would not give adequate warning time for American bombers to reach relative safety. To push the radar line farther from SAC bases, the Americans concluded an agreement with the Canadians in 1951 to build a chain of thirty radar stations across southern Canada known as the Pinetree Line, which was completed by the end of 1955. An agree- ment in 1954 pushed the radar warning farther north with the M