losses, in September the Gothas turned to night operations. One British reaction to the bomber attacks was to deploy barrage balloons in the fall of 1917, a device already employed by the Germans and Italians. A British inno- vation suspended an "apron" between the balloons with one-thousand-foot streamers. There were plans to implant twenty of these installations, but fewer than half were in action by May 1918. Although the bal- loons had little direct impact, damaging only one Giant bomber, they did force the attackers higher. The Germans modified the Gothas for the air offensive. The Gotha G.V was more streamlined and, unlike its predecessor, had its fuel tanks inside the fuselage, not under the engines. But the use of unseasoned wood and extra equipment added nine hundred to one thousand pounds, and poor-quality fuel decreased engine power and hurt performance, resulting in a bomber with little more speed, an inferior rate of climb, and no more altitude capability than the earlier Gothas. The Germans built eighteen of this model, the first of which reached the combat units in August 1917. The Gotha was replaced by a better aircraft, the larger and aptly named Giant. The Russians were the first to fly a four-engine aircraft, Igor Sikorsky's "Le Grand," which made its initial flight in May 1913. The Germans quickly followed with a series of large bombers that came to be designated Risen or R-type. These aircraft, much larger than the Gothas, were ungainly looking machines with long, narrow (high aspect ratio) wings that contradicted the old pilot saying, "If it doesn't look good, it can't fly good." Like the zeppelins they had engines that were accessible in flight, and some mounted their engines in the fuselage coupled to external props. The lat- ter arrangement concentrated weight near the center of gravity, allowing good flight characteristics, but this was counterbalanced by the increased complexity, greater weight, and the loss of power absorbed by the trans-