automatically dispense Chaff, and in May 1945 it was dropped in bomb casings. In October 1943 the AAF first used Carpet, an electronic jammer that reduced flak damage by one-fifth. The first versions were bar- rage jammers that blocked a set frequency, requiring at least half the bombers in the formation to be so equipped. In the last half of 1944 the Eighth introduced a ver- sion which swept for radar emissions and when one was detected automatically began jamming. The Eighth established an ECM squadron consisting of a dozen B-17s (later transitioning to B-24s) within the RAF's ECM group, which went into action in June 1944. It assisted Bomber Command until November, when it began operating on daylight missions, flying orbits over the North Sea to prevent the Germans from monitoring AAF radio traffic. By Febru- ary 1945 all the Eighth's bombers deployed Chaff, a number of ECM aircraft flew ahead of the formation equipment with Carpet, some with ECM operators. The Eighth employed zigzag routing to avoid flak concentrations, routing and diver- sionary formations to deceive the fighters, as well as fighter sweeps and medium bomber attacks to harass the defenders. The key weapon, fighter escort, was limited by the range of the fighters. For the first year escort consisted mostly of short-range Spitfires because the untried but longer range P-38 Lockheed Lightnings has been deployed to the African theater. The most serious AAF problem proved to be German fighters. The Americans con- tinued unescorted operations despite heavy losses, not so much because of stubborn- ness but because of limited fighter range resulting from the universally held belief that it was impossible to field an aircraft with both fighter performance and bomber range. The unsatisfactory performance of Another defensive weapon was electronic countermeasures. The AAF used Chaff for the first time in October 1943. It was effec- tive against German radars, but there were problems with production because