e operational in October 1986. SAC received one hundred of these bombers, the last of which was delivered in April 1988.  280 CHAPTER 11 STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT INTO THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY The B-1 confronted numerous problems and was subjected to a torrent of hostile criticism. It had major difficulties with its defensive electronics that stemmed from overambitious requirements, concurrency, and poor management. Initially the bomber also suffered fuel leaks and had inadequate range when operating at low altitudes. In September 1987 a bird strike downed a low-flying bomber, indicating the aircraft was very vulnerable to natural hazards when employing its standard combat tactics. The Air Force identified five vulnerable airframe locations and Rockwell added protective shielding to these areas. Structural fatigue caused by the low-level flying was noted, and repaired, in more than a third of the fleet. By the end of the decade SAC had shaken out most of the bomber's prob- lems as evidenced by the B-1 winning a number of awards in its first SAC bombing competition in 1988. It was converted to conventional role despite a 1988 congres- sional study that asserted that the bomber was too valuable to overfly its target, except for one pass over a poorly defended one. Although testing with iron bombs began in April 1988, much to the chagrin of the USAF, its most modern bomber did not see action in the 1991 Gulf War, accord- ing to the Air Force because of its inability to employ conventional weapons. The Air Force continued to have problems keeping the bomber in commission and mak- ing its ECM work properly as late as the mid-1990s. Nevertheless, one student of U.S. bomber development asserts that the B-1 was not the acquisition horror story as so often depicted but indeed a qualified success. The B-1B saw its first combat in Operation Desert Fox against the Iraqis in December 1998, delivering sixty-three tons of 500-pound bombs. Stealth One of the key military aviation innov