table reliability, accuracy and yield," he wrote in November 1955, "to be the ultimate weapon in the strategic inventory."4 In the interim, however, he saw missiles as aids to bombers. LeMay considered the missile's greatest military value was political and psy- chological, as ICBMs alone were incapable of destroying an enemy. The Atlas was a one-and-a-half-stage missile, that is, its two boosters and one sustainer engine were burning at liftoff, then after the boosters burned out, they were jettisoned. In June 1957 the first attempted Atlas launch failed, as did others, with only three of the first eight attempts going reason- ably well. The first successful flight was in December 1957, just months after the first shocking Sputnik launch. The U.S. military Clearly the ballistic missile had to over- come a variety of severe technical challenges to demonstrate its ability to reliably and accurately deliver a thermonuclear warhead over intercontinental distances. This was not a simple task. With limited funds the bal- listic missile faced a "Catch 22" situation of not having enough money to develop and Martin's Titan missile, another liquid-fueled missile, followed the Atlas and was a considerable improvement. Here a Titan I is seen in its launch sequence. (USAF) 245 was concerned not so much by the Soviet satellite capability as by their demonstrated ability with large boosters, which could also hurl nuclear warheads a long way. The influential Gaither report in December 1957 acknowledged a Soviet lead in ICBMs, which accentuated the fear of a "missile gap." Sputnik ignited a panic. President Eisenhower responded by increasing the Atlas deploy- ment plan from four to nine squadrons, building two intermediate-range ballistic missiles (IRBMs), accelerating the Navy's ballistic missile program, and beginning work on a third Air Force ICBM (Minuteman). The first Atlas B flew full range in November 1958, over a year after the Sovi- ets accomplished that feat. The USAF got