nd tanker duties. Bison production stopped in 1963 after the Russians had built 93. The bombers remained in service into the late 1980s when they were removed in accordance with arms-control agreements. It made its last flight in the mid-1990s. In a similar fashion the Myasish- chev M-50/M-52 Bounder was the The Tupolev Tu-22 Blinder was similar to the B-58 in terms of performance, roles, rewards (record-breaking flights and great publicity), and risks (high accident rates). However, although both developed at about the same time they were much differ- ent in appearance. Tupolev's entry into the supersonic bomber field began with an August 1954 study for a supersonic bomber. The final version had a sharply swept wing, needle nose, and twin engines mounted on either side of its vertical tail. The engine arrangement was a departure from the tradi- tional, and while it had some advantages, it added weight (15 percent) and complicated maintenance by its location. Three men positioned in tandem crewed the bomber, which was defended by a remotely con- trolled tail turret mounting first two 23-mm cannons and later one 23 mm.36 Although the prototype first flew in June 1958, a few months earlier the Soviets allowed a basic redesign to incorporate the area rule. This model made its first flight in September 1959 and testing encouraged the Soviets to authorize production before the year was out. Pilots found the bomber (Right) The Tu-22 Blinder was similar to the B-58 as both set many records and had high accident rates. The Blinder was distinguished by its unusual engine configuration, two engines mounted on the vertical tail. However, the air and ground crews disliked the bomber because of its poorly designed cockpit, dangerous flying characteristics, and unreliability. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) difficult to handle in some flight regimes as it possessed radically different handling characteristics, experienced aileron reversal at high speeds, and problems with hi