t decades but ends in 1945. R. Cargill Hall, ed., Case Studies in Strategic Bombardment (Washington, D.C .: Air Force History and Museums Program, 1998), like most collections of essays, varies in quality and balance but is notable for its length, scholarship, and authors. There are a number of studies on the broader subject of air power of varied value. Robin Higham's Air Power: A Concise History (New York: St. Martin's, 1972), which has been updated and renamed 100 Years of Air Power and Aviation (College Station: Texas A&M, 2003), and Walter Boyne's The Influence of Air Power upon History (New York: Pelican, 2003) are written by two prolific and leading experts in the field. James Stokesbury's A Short History of Air Power (New York: Mor- row, 1986) is an excellent brief history. Two scholarly studies critical of strategic bombing are Ronald Schaffer's Wings of Judgment: American Bombing in World War II (New York: Oxford, 1985) and Michael Sherry's The Rise of American Air Power: The Creation of Armageddon (New Haven, Conn .: Yale, 1987). Two recent studies are Stephen Budiansky's Air Power: The Men, Machines, and Ideas that Revolutionized War, from Kitty Hawk to Gulf War II (New York: Viking, 2004), and Charles Gross's American Military Aviation: The Indispensable Arm (College Station: Texas A&M, 2002). John Buckley's Air Power in the Age of Total War (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1999) is excellent, but his coverage ends in 1945. Aircraft are better covered. I have used the files of the National Museum of the United States Air Force, the Boeing Company, the National Archives, the San Diego Air and Space Museum, and the U.S. Air Force Historical Research Agency, which contain both primary and secondary materials on both U.S. and foreign aircraft. Aircraft are excessively covered by the secondary sources. For British bombers throughout this study I have used Peter Lewis, The British Bomber since 1914 (London: Putnam, 1967), along with Owen Thetford, Airc