f a suitable strategic bomber made a cheap bombardment device appealing. Allied bombing of Germany created a demand for retaliatory weapons while interservice rivalry nudged the GAF to match the army's emerging V-2 ballistic missile program. The V-1's development was rapid. In April 1941 the Luftwaffe tested the engine in the air, in June 1942 it gave it the high- est priority, and in December 1942 it glide  CHAPTER 3 GERMAN STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT warhead after it traveled a set distance and then after a preset number of revolutions, activated two detonators that locked the ele- vators and rudder in a neutral position and actuated spoilers on the tail to push the V-1 into a shallow terminal dive. This maneuver usually cut off the fuel flow, stopping the engine and thus warning those nearby. The British collected bits and pieces of information and by August 1943 knew of both German missile programs. That month they received photographs of the wreck- age of a V-1 that crashed in Denmark, the French underground provided information on the construction of launch sites in France, broken codes revealed additional intelligence, and in November 1943 aerial reconnaissance photos captured an image of a V-1 at the Peenemünde test faculty. In May 1944 the British examined a V-1 that crashed in Swe- den. Although the Allies received consider- able information about the V weapons, for every item that proved valid, they received numerous other pieces that were in error or exaggerated. As in all matters of intelligence (and history), the story is much clearer in retrospect than it was at the time. The Allies took active measures to thwart the German missile programs. They bombed launch sites and some production facili- ties in what one student of the subject has called "an ill-conceived campaign against an ill-defined threat."23 This effort was costly, achieved little payback, and appears to have been motivated more by political than military factors. Both American and Brit- ish air