from its cost and indecisiveness, and burned out after causing widespread destruction and massive casualties. Yalu River close to the Chinese and Soviet borders and sheltered from American bombs by the rules of engagement.21 Then the Chinese intervened in early November 1950 with a massive and effective ground force and with a large numbers of jet fight- ers. Everything changed on the ground and in the air. NH NAVY 3 The fighting was confined to the Korean peninsula, although the Communists used Chinese soil for bases and supplies. As there were some fears that the conflict would permit or cover a Soviet advance in Europe or possibly trigger World War III, Ameri- can decision makers limited the war, as did the Soviets. The United States used neither nuclear weapons, they were considered, nor their most modern bombers in the conflict. Strategic bombing was a mere footnote to the struggle on the ground, with the Air Force's primary roles clearly the gaining and maintaining of air superiority and support- ing the ground troops. This was not the war the airmen anticipated. bomber, it carried a six-ton bomb load. The first carrier launch in June 1950 gave the Navy a nuclear delivery capability. The Navy equipped eight attack and two reconnais- sance squadrons with the aircraft that served into the late 1950s. It was replaced by the jet-powered A-3, which first flew in 1952, with deliveries starting in March 1956. There were numerous restrictions that constrained the bombers. The B-29s bombed only targets in Korea, few of which were strategic. Over the course of the war the numbers of bombers were also limited; the monthly average of B-29s in the theater inventory was 109. In addition, the USAF did not commit its newest bombers, the B-36, B-45, and B-47, although a few B-45s and B-50s saw action in reconnaissance roles. The Air Force did not want to risk either its small numbers of its best bombers or their secrets in this war. For the same reason the airmen restricted th