6 book boldly states, "it is clear that 'Rolling Thunder' could have been successful only if the civilian leaders in Washington had made a policy decision to use military power effectively"2 The military wanted to administer a quick, sharp, over- whelming blow to the North Vietnamese. In August 1964 the JCS approved a plan to attack ninety-four targets in the North in sixteen days, which was later revised into an eleven-week plan to destroy most of the ninety-four targets. Surely this would have been easier in 1965 than later, because at that time the North Vietnamese had essentially no air defense system. But two contrary points stand out. First, the decision  218 CHAPTER 9 THE 1960S AND 1970S The graduated and sporadic applica- tion of force allowed the North Vietnamese to adjust to the air assault. When Rolling Thunder began the North Vietnamese had few fighters and experienced pilots and no SAMs. But over a period of years they were able to integrate small numbers of dated technology into an effective air defense system, and while their "guerrilla tactics of the air" were unable to stop American air power, they made it costly. The air war over the North provided the Vietnamese with American prisoners who became hostages and pawns in the propaganda war. Most important, the bombing allowed the North Vietnamese to rally their people to support the war and the regime as gradual American bombing and effective North Vietnamese defenses bolstered civilian morale, not the contrary. American restraint lessened the impact of the air campaign while still inflicting enough intentional and unintentional harm to anger the popula- tion. The Communists were also able to muster world support by presenting Roll- ing Thunder as a David-like struggle of a peaceful people against a cruel, aggressive Goliath. Further, it is now clear that until the 1968 Tet Offensive the war was an unconventional conflict fought by South Vietnamese (Vietcong) guerrillas requiring minimal help from th