mbs, 390 tons at night. The British bombed targets dur- ing the war as deep as 150 miles within Germany, hitting Bonn, Cologne, Frankfurt, and Stuttgart. The cost was high: 109 aircraft were lost, according to one source, 104 day and 34 night bombers according to another. For the period October 1917 through to the Armistice, for every British strategic bomber lost to enemy action, three were lost to accidents, close to the ratio of losses endured by the British airmen in the last eighteen months of the war. While the British had a grand idea of an Allied strategic force consisting of some sixty American, British, and French squad- rons, the field commanders feared a drain on their forces as well as a lack of control. Tepid French support was a problem because the logical place for the bases was in France. It was not until late October 1918 that Mar- shal Ferdinand Foch, the Allied commander on the western front, agreed to the orga- nization of an Allied air force, only shortly before the war ended. It should be noted that there was tension among the Allies over control and targeting, Trenchard in fact admitted that he considered autonomy more important than cooperation. During the course of the war the Ger- man airmen inflicted about twice the casu- alties on British civilians (1,400 killed and 19 3,400 injured) as did the British (750 killed and 1,300 injured). Allied bombing caused about $6 million in damage on Germany, while the British suffered about $15 million in damage. Two factors help account for this difference: German air defenses were better at warning civilians than the British system and the Germans had better strategic bomb- ers and more experienced aircrews than did the IF. Conclusions Clearly the World War I air war was over- shadowed by the ground war. Aircraft had more impact on the public than on the bat- tlefield, and more on the imagination than the reality. Air power showed greater results in tactical operations (certainly observation and reco