should consider the proportionality of their acts, that the hoped for destruction of a target is both probable and worth the death of, or risk to, nearby civilians. Numbers do count, but what is the proportion? Is the death of some innocents worth the saving of the lives of some combatants or other inno- cents either directly or by shortening the conflict? These have always been difficult, and perhaps impossible, questions to answer. The Postwar Era THE END OF PROPELLER-POWERED BOMBERS The TURTLE S trategic air warfare was significantly changed by technologies that emerged from World War II. First, the employ- ment of the atomic bomb gave one aircraft the destruction capability of hundreds of conventionally armed bombers and appeared to make accuracy less impor- tant. Electronics was a second significant technology that affected strategic bombing. On the offensive side radar aided bomber navigation and permitted nonvisual bomb- ing. Overall, however, electronics benefited the defense even more, with radar stripping the cloak of invisibility and surprise from bombers and aiding interception, proximity fuses increasing the efficiency of projectiles, and guidance for both surface-to-air and air-to-air missiles improving the probability of kill. A third technology was jet and rocket propulsion. German jet-powered fighters saw little combat and had no military impact in the war; however, in short order jet power markedly changed aviation. Other devel- opments seen in World War II went into service later, including development of the V-1 andV-2 cruise and ballistic missiles. The Germans also tested, but did not field, sur- face-to-air missiles, which later would make high-altitude bomber operations impractical. There were a number of other key innovations that appeared in the immediate postwar period. One of the most significant, largely unappreciated by laymen, was aerial refueling, which emerged into operational use in the late 1940s and early in the 1950s and gave esse