f their European experience, advancing escort fighters within range of Japan, and they did base four fighter groups there. But the relatively weak fighter opposition and the Japanese decision to conserve their air ry force to combat the expected American invasion rendered this unnecessary. There- fore the fighters were released after a week and a half of escort missions to free-ranging strike sweeps, which became their major employment.15 Although the AAF also planned to stage bombers out of the island, it flew only seven mining missions and one bombing mission in this manner. From the airman's perspective the major advantage of taking Iwo Jima was to provide succor for damaged and fuel short B-29s. The first landed there on March 4 and was followed by twenty-four hundred others. Four-fifths landed for fuel, and although not all would have been lost otherwise, the existence of an emergency field certainly bolstered aircrew morale. LeMay completely changed the Pacific strategic air campaign in March 1945 with a radical deviation from the AAF doctrine of high-level, formation, precision, daylight bombing. As already described, there had been calls for fire bombing Japanese cities The Boeing B-29 was the first operational bomber to mount remote- controlled gun turrets and have a pressurized cabin. However, it had a higher accident rate than the B-17 and B-24 and suffered more losses to mechanical problems than to Japanese defenses. Here seen raining incendiary bombs on Japan, the Superfort went on to serve in the Korean War and Cold War. (USAF) 143 prior to the war due to their vulnerability. Operations exposed even more compel- ling reasons to change tactics, such as Japan's dispersed cottage industries, limited intel- ligence, the weather, and, most of all, the lack of results with the existing techniques. The AAF had directed test incendiary raids that were conducted under both Hansell and LeMay. These six missions flown at high altitude, both day and night, yielded