ry target because his orders were to bomb only under visual conditions. Running short of fuel, and harassed by the weather, he began his bomb run using radar and only at the last moment did the bombardier pick up the target visually and release the bomb. Because of the geography and the miss distance, the destruction and casualties at Nagasaki were less than the first attack: 1.5 square miles destroyed and 35,000 to 70,000 killed of the 250,000 residents. Critically short of fuel, Sweeney made one circuit of the stricken city before flying directly to Okinawa. After a "hot" (high- speed) approach and landing, the bomber stopped only ten feet from the end of the runway. Sweeney then taxied off the run- way, at which point two engines died from fuel starvation. Despite the two atomic bombs, the hopeless situation, and the entry of the Sovi- ets into the war on August 8, the Japanese did not immediately surrender. The Japanese decision makers were split over the surren- der terms, and only the intervention of the emperor on August 10 resolved the issue. A coup attempt by hard-line officers followed, extinguished with few casualties. Meanwhile the bombing continued. The last B-29s lost in action went down on August 8, and com- bat missions ended on the fourteenth. The B-32 The Boeing B-29 was not the only very heavy, long-range bomber engaged in the Pacific air war. The Consolidated B-32 was an upgraded and enlarged version of the company's successful B-24, which was developed simultaneously with the B-29 and was to serve as its backup. It was larger and heaver than the Liberator and differed from it in that it had a cylindrical fuselage, rounded nose, and, more important, initially had both a pressurized cabin and remote, retractable gun turrets. It was powered by the same engines as the B-29, first flew in September 1942 (two weeks before the B-29), and exhibited a number of problems. Delays were chronic and not helped by the crash of one of the two experimental aircr