a was extremely difficult. In the twelve hun- dred miles between the Indian and Chinese bases stood the Himalayan mountains and some of the most difficult terrain on the planet. This, combined with a lack of weather forecasting facilities, emergency airfields, and navigation aids, made flying the "Hump" a hazard that sometimes exceeded combat, so that the airlift became one of the epic stories of the war. The AAF used transports, combat B-29s, and twenty B-29s converted to transports and in September brought in B-24s that had been converted to transports (C-109s). About 90 percent of the cargo was gas. The Japanese made a few ineffective efforts to impede the airlift, attacking Chinese bases twice and the Indian bases once, and achieving only a few air-to-air interceptions. Neverthe- less losses were high, as through October 1944 twenty-three aircraft went down to noncombat causes. Supply constraints restricted operations, so while the wing believed it could fly 432 sorties a month, its peak effort from the Chinese bases was 310 sorties in October. In the end the strategic air offensive from China looked better on a map than on the ground and was more an exercise in politics than in military force. Operations from India and China The tremendous effort yielded little military gain. The first combat mission was a daylight strike against railroad yards in Bangkok on June 5, 1944, that was marred by mechani- cal problems. Of the unit's 112 bombers available for action, 14 failed to get airborne, 1 crashed shortly after takeoff, 13 others returned early, and 4 were lost to difficulties with the fuel transfer system. Only 4.5 tons of the 353 tons of bombs dropped on the primary target by seventy-seven B-29s fell in the target area. Meanwhile Arnold pushed for a hundred-plane mission against Japan to coincide with the invasion of Saipan. On June 13 the XXth dispatched ninety-two bombers to China, a dozen of which landed short of their destination and one was lost. On the f