, however, as mechanical problems decreased and bomb loads increased. Two of these early missions under LeMay are noteworthy. The Americans con- sidered the air battle of January 27 the most savage of the strategic campaign against Japan. The Japanese hit the B-29s with 984 attacks and downed nine bombers, a loss rate of 14 percent of the effective sorties. while the bomber gunners claimed sixty fighters destroyed. Two weeks later eighty- four Superforts bombed the Nakajima plants at Ota in clear weather and achieved good results that the intelligence officers estimated destroyed three months of single- engine fighter production and one month of twin-engine fighter production. A later study called this mission "undoubtedly the most effective single attack by the XXI Bomber Command during the first four months of operations."14 LeMay employed and continued some of the same techniques begun under Hansell to improve the performance of the XXIst, such as more training, organizing lead crews,  142 RAZING JAPAN and introducing production line mainte- nance (centralized at the group level). These policies along with growing ground crew experience and improving weather led to increased flying time on each bomber and a greater percentage of aircraft attacking the primary target. Another factor that helped improve the XXIst was the stream of new aircraft and crews that joined the battle. The February 1945 seizure of Iwo Jima also improved overall performance. On February 19, 1945, the Marines invaded Iwo Jima, a small (two by two miles) volcanic island about half way between the Marianas and Japan. This action not only denied the Japanese a base for radar, fighters, and intruding bombers but, more important, gave the AAF a valuable base. The airmen were thinking mainly in terms of their European experience, advancing escort fighters within range of Japan, and they did base four fighter groups there. But the relatively weak fighter opposition and the Japanese decision to conse