al and strategic ends, and both the tactical and strategic air forces could engage in the campaign. This effort went forward despite the resistance of the British and American bomber com- manders, the AAF's Carl Spaatz preferring to bomb oil, and the RAF's Arthur Harris cities. Yet bombing of communications was an outstanding success as German reinforce- ments to the battlefront were delayed and battered helping the ground forces make good their assault. Bomber Command waged a long, lonely, and lethal campaign against Nazi Germany. It was expensive in treasure and costly in lives, with forty-seven thousand aircrew fatalities on combat operations and a total of seventy-nine thousand casual- ties to all causes. In addition the Allied bombing flattened many European cities and killed hundreds of thousands of civil- ians. The campaign lasted from almost the very beginning to the very end of the war. Between Dunkirk and D day it was the only offensive operation waged by Britain in northern Europe. The results were ambigu- ous and remain controversial to this day. As this bombing is so intertwined with the American bombing, I will hold off further comment for the moment. The strategic question was more difficult. The Germans had done much to thwart the bombing effort against their economy by concealing, dispersing, hardening, and building their factories underground, as well as directly defending them. However, the Germans still had to transport parts and raw materials from one facility to the next and move the finished product to the troops. To do this the Germans had a vast, redundant rail and canal system that was well organized, well maintained, and rapidly repaired. Allied decision makers were divided on which target set was best, oil or communications, so both were hit. German oil dried up and the railway system collapsed under Allied bombing in August-September 1944. + 4/14/ T he initial U.S. reaction to the rise of aggressive dictatorships in 1930s was to enact le