ssiles, spe- cifically the Rascal aboard the B-36, which will be discussed below. The aircraft had a crowd of initial prob- lems, some of which persisted for years. The first concerned the landing gear, for the experimental bomber employed huge sin- gle-wheel landing gear that restricted opera- tions to only three airfields in the United States that could handle that concentrated weight. The manufacturer changed this as well as substituting a dome canopy for the stepped (airline) configuration. Nevertheless the aircraft did not satisfy the user. SAC's first commander, Gen. George Kenney, considered the B-36 inferior to the Boeing B-50, and criticized the B-36's range, speed, and lack of protection of the fuel tanks. The top echelon disagreed, and the bomber's development continued. Throughout its ser- vice the B-36's chief advantage was its range and its major disadvantage its speed. Like the B-50, the B-36 would be an interim bomber until the jets appeared. The first combat capable B-36, the "B" model, joined SAC in November 1948. Another effort to defend and extend the bomber's effectiveness involved bring- ing along fighters, a concept pioneered in the early 1930s by U.S. Navy airships. The McDonnell XF-85 was a small fighter that could be carried internally and had to be flown by a pilot no taller than five foot nine The shift in leadership at SAC benefited the B-36. Unlike Kenney, LeMay supported The last and largest U.S. piston-powered strategic bomber was the Convair B-36, a very big aircraft Test flights of the diminutive fighter with a B-29 between August 1948 and April 1949 revealed that while the aircraft flew satisfactorily and could be launched, there were severe problems involving its recovery. The USAF cancelled the project in April 1949 before it could be mated to the B-36. A second system attached fighters to bomber wing tips. After several successful link ups, the Air Force cancelled Project Tip Tow after an April 1953 accident that destroyed the B