rew of four and carry only ECM for defense. 199 in particular. He criticized the Republicans for their neglect of bombers and stated, "I wholeheartedly endorse the B-70 manned aircraft."30 Nevertheless, shortly after taking office, Kennedy cut the program to research and to a buy of three aircraft. 1948, which essentially consisted of firing only a few captured V-2s. The withdrawal of U.S. cooperation in developing nuclear weapons only made matters more difficult. In response to this need, the RAF fielded three jet bombers that formed the V-Force. North American built and tested two aircraft; the XB-70A made its maiden flight in September 1964, and one was lost in a midair collision on a photo shoot in June 1966. The aircraft gathered valuable aerodynamic data despite difficulties with engine inlets, fuel and hydraulic leaks, land- ing gear and brakes, and corrosion of panels. In the late 1960s the National Air and Space Administration (NASA) used the sole B-70 in support of the abortive supersonic trans- port program. The B-70s made a total of 129 flights and reached a top speed of Mach 3.08 and an altitude of seventy-four thousand feet. In the end the B-70 turned out to be a magnificent technology in search of a purpose. Times had changed as the aircraft developed, there was now no need for a "manned missile." More significant, the can- cellation of the B-70 and the Skybolt air- to-surface missile (see chapter 9) in the early 1960s demonstrated the shift in strategic bombardment away from bombers toward ballistic missiles. In late 1946 the Royal Air Force cir- culated a draft specification for a medium bomber capable of operating as high as fifty thousand feet at five hundred knots with a radius of fifteen hundred nautical miles. The same day authorization for nuclear develop- ment was approved in January 1947 the Air Ministry issued a specification that resulted in contracts for the Avro Vulcan and Hand- ley Page Victor. Doubts about these two aircraft led to bac