chard Peirse, noted that it would be foolhardy to provoke a German response because the GAF could deliver a blow four times greater than Bomber Command.) Events quickly changed the RAF's position. On May 15 Bomber Command was authorized to attack east of the Rhine following the German invasion of the Low Countries, and that night it launched one hundred bombers against oil and rail targets in the Ruhr. But competing priorities intervened after the fall of France; most of all French ports that sheltered invasion barges. The Battle of Britain escalated matters. The GAF's accidental bombing of London on August 24 led to the bombing of Berlin the next night and the countering assault on London that began on September 7.The British maintained their policy of precision bombing, now at night, and continued to shun indiscriminate attacks. Bomber Command believed it was having an impact with its bombing based on the claims of its crews and information that leaked out of Germany. It was not until November 1940 that the RAF formed Spitfire reconnaissance units that could obtain poststrike photography and positive evidence of its bombing. The airmen had neglected aerial cameras and reconnaissance, much to the detriment of the bombing campaign. It bears repeating that intelligence was, and is, a critical element of strategic bombardment. To be clear, this includes both the identification of critical objectives and assessment of damage (bomb damage assess- ment) of these targets. Aerial photographs forced the RAF to question the reporting of its aircrews. For example, on the December 13, 1940, raid against Mannheim, 102 aircrews reported that they delivered their bombs in the target area and left the center of the city in flames on this first nonprecision area raid. Photo- graphs, however, indicated a wide dispersal of bombs and showed that the mission had failed. Late in the month Spitfire photos of two oil facilities at Gelsenkirchen revealed that although the majority of 196 a