ying accidents in night and bad weather. The night fighters suffered additional and heavy losses in daylight battles in 1944 against AAF formations of heavily armed bombers and especially against escort fighters. Other factors included the loss of Western Europe, which stripped Germany of its forward early warning radars, buffer, and airfields, as well as fuel shortages that curtailed training as early as 1942 and night fighter operations by mid-1944.29 The night defender's defeat was not due to the lack of courage, skill, or inno- vation, and they cannot be blamed for the loss of Western Europe. To the contrary they  CHAPTER 4 94 BRITISH STRATEGIC BOMBING 2.2 percent in the second quarter and 1.8 percent in the third. Part of this change was due to the shorter penetration of enemy ter- ritory and the dispersed nature of the targets, which deprived the defender of the "target rich environment" of the bomber stream. At the same time the defeat of the Luftwaffe day fighters allowed relatively cheap day operations, even though the British crews lacked the training and experience of the Americans and their aircraft lacked the fire- power and altitude capabilities of the AAF bombers. During the first five years of the war, Bomber Command's day missing rate was 5.1 percent, compared with 0.4 percent after June 1, 1944. Night losses also declined. Bomber Command losses fell to a mere 0.84 percent in the last quarter of 1944 and 1.2 percent in 1945. During this period (March 26 to September 16) Bomber Command delivered one-third of its total tonnage. were poorly served by the decision makers, who only belatedly saw the importance of night fighters, rejected potent intruder tactics, neglected better aircraft, and sent the night fighters into the day battle where they were cut to pieces. An Interlude in Strategic Bombing 95 Allied airmen received a mild reprieve beginning in early 1944 and extending through the fall of 1944 with the shifting of targets from Germany to those i