y tanks, provision for ECM, and improved J 57 engines. the approach chute), and pilots positioned in tandem under a bubble canopy. The B-52's entire horizontal stabilizer moved for pitch control, a development just appear- ing on fighters, and a first for a large aircraft. The breakthrough was the emergence of the Pratt and Whitney J 57 engine, which provided adequate power and range. The engine suffered developmental problems, not unusual, and only passed its fifty-hour qualification five months before the initial B-52 flight tests. Engine surge, a condition analogous with backfire in a reciprocat- ing engine sometimes resulting in engine flame-out, was another continuing problem The airmen desired heavy defensive armament based on their World War II  MIUs 192 CHAPTER 8 BETWEEN KOREA AND VIETNAM 193 experience. The USAF considered numer- ous defensive measures for the B-52, including parasite fighters and manned wing-tip turrets. As late as 1952 Boeing was studying "all around" defenses, retractable 30 mm-cannon turrets, and a radar-directed (unmanned) tail turret. SAC considered these ideas to be an interim solution until air-to-air defensive missiles became avail- able.19 After seemingly constant delays and a number of problems, the decision makers settled on a manned tail turret armed with quadruple .50s that simplified sighting and was more reliable, although the installation added weight, complexity, and cost. These defenses should have been seriously ques- tioned as guided air-to-air missiles for inter- ceptors went into service in the late 1950s and rendered such defenses inadequate. flight of the B-50A Lucky Lady II (February 1949) in half.21 The "C" through "F" models were only modestly changed. Weights and range increased, and three-thousand-gallon external tanks replaced the existing ones. The "E" model also mounted two air-to-surface missiles (ASMs), Hound Dogs, on pylons between the fuselage and inboard engines. growing defenses, SAC added additional E