n six miles. The first German V-weapon was a small, pilotless aircraft with various designations, although best known as the V-1. Such weap- ons had been proposed as early as World War I, but problems with control, accuracy, and the cost of a conventional engine were barriers. The invention of the cheap pulse jet engine in the late 1920s reenergized the concept, although various technical issues (the engine's high fuel consumption, short life, and severe vibrations along with the missile's problems of control and accuracy) required solution. From the German army's viewpoint, the issues of range, accuracy, and cost kept the project from receiving priority in the mid-1930s. The V-1 had a small winged airframe half the size of a FW 190 and one-quarter the size of an He 111. What distinguished it from an aircraft was its lack of a pilot and its long engine housing mounted above the aft third of the fuselage and vertical stabilizer.22 The pulse jet engine used cheap gasoline (75 octane) and a louvered Venetian blind-type device in the intake which rapidly opened to admit air and closed for combustion, giving it its distinctive ("putt, putt") sound. The missile required a boosted catapult launch because it could not operate at speeds less than 150 mph. It could carry a 1-ton war- head on average about 130 miles and crossed the British coast at 340 mph, reaching about 390 mph at the target. Most of the V-1s flew between three thousand and four thousand feet. A small propeller in the nose armed the The conquest of France opened an opportunity for this weapon because it reduced the severity of the range problem, and because accuracy was directly related to range, the accuracy problem diminished as well. The war also stretched the Luftwaffe thin, which along with the GAF's lack of a suitable strategic bomber made a cheap bombardment device appealing. Allied bombing of Germany created a demand for retaliatory weapons while interservice rivalry nudged the GAF to match the army'