t. Meanwhile a more impressive aircraft put an end to Boe- ing's hopes for a large production order. The Barling appeared at several air shows in the mid-1920s, where its giant size impressed the crowds. However, its limited performance dissatisfied the airmen, and the bomber made its last flight in May 1925. For its day it was an expensive machine, cost- ing $.5 million along with an addition $.7 million for a hangar. In 1928 it was burned, on the orders of Henry "Hap" Arnold, who would command the Army Air Forces (AAF) during World War II. From Barling to B-10 For decade and a half after the end of World War I, U.S. Army airmen used twin-engine, short-range aircraft as their standard bomb- ers. And these were little improved over what had been in service in the last year of World War I: The DH-4 had a top speed of 124 mph, whereas ten years later the Curtiss Condor B-2 could reach 130 mph. These bombers looked very much the same, with any increase in performance due mainly to greater engine power, which increased from the 420 hp of the famous Liberty engine to the 575 hp of the Wright R 1820, which powered the B-6A. The Boeing bomber was a derivative of its single-engine, all-metal Monomail trans- port. The XB-901 bomber first flew in April 1931, powered by two 575-hp engines and featuring retractable landing gear that helped it reach a maximum speed of 163 mph, and a service ceiling of over nineteen thousand feet. The aircraft had four open cockpits (with the pilot and copilot in tandem posi- tions) that were criticized for the difficulty they posed to the front gunner and copilot if they had to abandon the bomber in flight. The test pilot also noted the heavy rudder pressure required at high speed, even though it was the first American aircraft to have rudder servo tabs that employed aerody- namic forces to assist the pilot. The Air Corps During the 1920s the airmen's concep- tion of bombers was in flux, as seen in their shifting aircraft designation systems. In