mmediate calls from the survivors of Coventry for retaliation. The Heinkel 177 In contrast to the great German aviation success of getting a jet fighter into opera- tions before the Allies, the Germans failed to field anything comparable in numbers or performance to the heavy bombers (Right) One of the worst aviation failures of World War II was the Heinkel 177. To achieve range and diving requirements, the Germans mounted four engines in two nacelles that turned two propellers. This arrangement was a fiery disaster, and consequently the Germans never fielded an effective long-range bomber force as did their foes. (USAF) employed by the British and Americans. The one GAF long-range bomber that did get into service is instead better known for engine fires, structural failures, and lackluster operational results. One aviation historian calls this program "the most dismal chapter in the wartime record of the German aircraft industry,"16 while another notes that "no bomber of W.W. II suffered more unpopularity with its crews or produced so little tactical results for its total cost in effort and exchanges, than the He 177."17 55 The Germans began to seriously investigate a long-range bomber begin- ning in 1934, an effort encouraged by the charismatic chief of the GAF, Walther Wever. The next summer the Luftwaffe sent specifications to Dornier and Junkers that produced the unsuccessful Do 19 and Ju 89. Even before the Do 19 first flew the GAF decided it needed a more capable bomber. In June 1936 the Luftwaffe instructed five manufacturers to design a heavy bomber that could employ dive bombing tactics, a key, controversial, and critical requirement.  CHAPTER 3 GERMAN STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT performance. In short the He 177 was an aircraft that demonstrated German ambition and ingenuity well beyond the capabilities of German industry. (The reader will note that this preceded the German experience in Spain.) The German Air Ministry issued a design requirement to Heinkel, onl