ly larger than the C-4 and can reach out over four thousand miles with ten to fourteen warheads with an accuracy of .06 nm (365 feet).12 It was initially deployed in 1990. In contrast to the Trident submarine, the Trident missile development went well. As seen here, the missile made its first flight in January 1977. The U.S. Navy deployed the Trident missile in older, retrofitted SSBNs beginning in October 1979, and years later aboard Trident submarines. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) 255 The British also participated in the U.S. SSBM program. They obtained four Polaris submarines along with Polaris missiles and later upgraded to Trident IIs. The Royal Navy began SLBM patrols in June 1968. The Navy's accomplishments with the SSBN and SLBM were remarkable. The first Polaris submarine began its first operational patrol in July 1960, an astonishing four years after its inception. This required the Navy to bring together a number of new technolo- gies and integrate them into a weapons system. It was new, if not revolutionary, and has stood the test of time. feet.13 This allowed the missile to be pro- grammed for very low altitude flight, which coupled with the device's small size made it difficult to spot and track. The second innovation was the development of a small, lightweight engine that had remarkably low fuel consumption, greatly boosting range. At the end of 1960s the Air Force sought a replacement for its obsolete Quail decoy. In June 1970 the Air Force approved a simple, low-cost subsonic cruise armed decoy (SCAD) for internal carriage on the B-52, primarily as a decoy with a later arming option. The next month the DoD approved the unarmed decoy. The program did not go well, and some suspected that the USAF did not want too much accuracy or a lethal payload because that would threaten their bombers as well as the enemy. The USAF awarded contracts in 1972 but the project was cancelled in June 1973 only to be restored in December as the air-launched cruise