and prisoners. The bomb- ing delayed the program four to six weeks. Allied bombing also knocked out the large launch sites of German V-weapons, pounded a few manufacturing plants, but mainly hit V-1 launch sites. These raids encouraged the Germans to move testing to Poland and manufacturing from three above-ground factories to a massive tunnel complex in the Harz Mountains. Here foreign workers labored under extraordinarily horrible (and lethal) conditions and built approximately six thousand rockets between January 1944 and March 1945.28 The Allies considered, and rejected, a number of drastic means to counter the V-weapons, including poison gas and reprisal raids on Berlin. The Allied advance from Normandy interfered with the V-2 deployment; nevertheless, on August 29 Hitler ordered  CHAPTER 3 66 GERMAN STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT 67 andmed sipstane immediate operations. On September 6, 1944, the Germans launched two V-2s against Paris, but both malfunctioned. Two days later they fired one against Paris and two against London. Initially the British government explained the V-2 hits as gas explosions; it was not until two months later that Churchill acknowledged the V-2 bom- bardment in a speech to Parliament. Unlike the V-1, there was neither a close-in defense against the ballistic missile nor warning of its attack.29 Allied air attacks did not catch a single V-2 launch crew, although the bombing did slow and hinder supply. Missile malfunctions were a significant problem, with 8 to 10 percent failing at launch, caus- ing more casualties than did Allied aircraft. London was pounded until Allied troops forced the German missile unit to withdraw out of range. The Germans did not introduce any improved models of the V-2 into combat as they had with the V-1. Two changes were incorporated, however, the first of which pushed the range out to 220 miles. A second change saw service beginning in January 1945, when an SS battery employed a radio guide beam that enhanced accuracy.