s (P6M-2). The latter had a gross weight of 160,000 pounds and a top speed of almost six hundred knots at sea level.13 Cost escalation and technical problems undercut SSF, and at the same time the Navy made Convair's B-60 was a B-36 fitted with swept-back wings and empennage and powered by eight jet engines. While boosting some economic advantages over the Boeing bomber, it could not match the B-52's flying performance and was little better than the B-36. The project was cancelled less than a year after its maiden flight in April 1952. (National Museum of the USAF) When all is said and done, all of the jet bombers pale in comparison to Boeing's  190 CHAPTER 8 BETWEEN KOREA AND VIETNAM B-52 Stratofortress, better known as the BUFF ("big ugly fat fellow" in the G-rated translation). It fought in many wars and is still in service over half a century after its first flight, a truly remarkable career. The B-52's concept dates back to AAF requirements in 1945 for an advanced bomber but not addressed by aircraft builders who believed it was "well beyond the state of the art."15 The AAF realized design compromises would be necessary and that a proposal for an interim aircraft should emphasize high speed. Three companies submitted promising proposals in April 1946, and the AAF awarded Boeing a study contract in June 1946. The Boeing design began as a straight- wing bomber powered by six turboprop engines, appearing much like a large B-29 except for a stepped up rather than glazed cockpit. The project continued despite concerns about size, weight, and range before Boeing arrived at a design that would take flight. This emerged from a storied meet- ing between Boeing and USAF person- nel at Dayton in October 1948. According to some, the Boeing team went in with a turboprop design but was told that the Air Force was really interested in a pure jet-pow- ered bomber and, over a weekend, submitted such a design. It was a notable achievement, but not quite as spectacular as the sto