the SAC was never ending, demanding, as realistic as possible, and strictly scrutinized. The objective was to ensure getting the weapons accurately on the target, despite weather, mechanical difficulties, and enemy defenses. The command attempted to instill realism into its training and evaluations with no-notice inspections and simulated exercises.16 Concerns with safety and incon- veniencing the American public (by using Missiles he story of strategic bombard- ment is dominated by aircraft. Aircraft were the first delivery system and have delivered essentially all of the warheads aimed at cities, people, and factories over the history of this mode of warfare. More recently two other systems (ballistic and cruise missiles) have emerged and pushed bombers into a subordinate position, at least for strategic targets, espe- cially for the delivery of nuclear weapons. However, while missiles have increas- ingly armed powers large and small, and become increasingly important in a deter- rent role, they have seen little combat. T Nuclear Strategy Before proceeding further some context is required. Immediately following World War II there were few nuclear weapons in the U.S. arsenal and U.S. war policy was little A changed from that of World War II. War plans called for a combination of nuclear strikes along with a conventional strategic bombing campaign based on the World War II experience. Nuclear weapons were seen as just bigger bombs. But this changed when the Soviets got nuclear weapons and as the Americans both acquired grow- ing numbers of weapons and developed enhanced atomic bombs (1951) and hydrogen bombs (1952) that dramati- cally increased power from the Hiroshima bomb's 15 kilotons to many megatons. The strategy became one of mass nuclear strikes, mostly of cities, a policy called "massive retaliation."These changes coincided with President Eisenhower's desire to balance the budget by cutting government spend- ing. He focused on the military, slashed conventio