ould slip toward its target while the GAF was distracted. The mission would include fighter escort for the Regensburg force prior to the target and escort for the returning Schweinfurt bomb- ers. There would also be bomber and fighter- bomber attacks on two marshaling yards and four airfields. Timing was critical because of the limits of fighter escort range and the distance to the targets. Col. Curtis LeMay, commander of the 4th Wing, led 146 B-17s through stiff resis- tance to Regensburg and later commented that "our fighter escort had black crosses on their wings."16 His bombers achieved excellent results due to a lull in the defenses at the target, the lower than usual bombing altitudes, and the relatively long bomb run. (One unit, finding the target obscured by smoke, made a complete turn and a second bomb run.) The plant lost eight to ten weeks' production. The Forts continued on to Africa. damaged bombers into Swiss internment and 4 damaged aircraft were written off. The heavy losses shook the American airmen. The Eighth's highest one-day losses thus far had been twenty-six bombers, and the unit had gone seven months and flown thirteen hundred sorties before losing its first sixty bombers. The twin missions showed the German defenders at their best and how weather could foil American plans. It also demonstrated that shuttle missions were not practical because of inadequate base facilities in Africa. lower than normal bombing altitudes and a longer bomb run to get half of their bombs within the factory area, destroying two- thirds of the factory. The deep raid caught the Germans by surprise, yet the attack- ers suffered 28 bombers lost, 3 interned in Sweden, and 3 written off of the 352 aircraft that bombed. The October 10 mis- sion against Munster endured similar losses, 29 bombers missing and 3 salvaged. (Of 14 bombers dispatched by the unlucky 100th "Bloody Hundredth" Bomb Group, only 2 returned home, 1 with two engines out and another crash landing.) The b