s performance. The R.XIV saw service on the western front, with one shot down by a night-flying Sopwith Camel near the front lines. The largest attack on London came on May 19, 1918. The Germans thrust thirty-eight Gothas, two C-types, and three R-planes toward Britain, of which only The increasing problems encountered by the zeppelins pushed the Germans to make greater use of airplanes. On September 28, 1917, six Giants participated in their first bombing operation against Britain. In one week in September 1917, the Germans launched ninety-two Gothas, fifty-five of which crossed the coast; however, fewer than twenty reached London, while only one of five Giant sorties hit the city. The Germans lost thirteen Gothas. Nevertheless, these raids forced as many as half a million London- eighteen Gothas and one Giant reached the British capital. The defenders had a good night: The eighty-eight fighters that got aloft claimed three Gothas, while antiair- craft guns fired over thirty thousand rounds and claimed three more. A seventh bomber crashed near its airfield. The attackers did unload eleven tons of bombs on Britain that killed 49 and injured another 177. This was the last assault on London ... during this war. The Germans then directed their bombers to support its army's offensive in France. ers to move at night into the underground, the countryside, tunnels, and government The Germans also raided French cities. During the war Paris was attacked by fifty-  APTER 1 THE EARLY YEARS THROUGH WORLD WAR I operations eroded British civilian morale and diverted considerable forces from the west- ern front. Even allowing for its novelty, the bombing of London had a disproportionate impact on the population and, as shall be seen, on the bombardment theorists. eight airplane and airship sorties that dropped thirty-three tons of bombs that killed 270 Parisians. The French deployed about nine hundred guns and forty thou- sand men to defend their capital.11 German aircraft operati