because that would threaten their bombers as well as the enemy. The USAF awarded contracts in 1972 but the project was cancelled in June 1973 only to be restored in December as the air-launched cruise missile (ALCM). The New and Improved Cruise Missile At the same time ballistic missiles were challenging the preeminence of bomb- ers, another contender arose. Actually, it was an old concept revived by new technologies. As already described, into the 1960s cruise missiles had a long and rather undistinguished history, including wartime German and postwar American service. Two technological breakthroughs transformed this unreliable, short-range, and inaccurate cruise missile into a formidable weapon of war. The first was an improve- ment in computing power that permitted a navigation system that compared digitized terrain elevations of the planned route with the actual elevations at waypoints to guide the missile: terrain contour matching (TER COM). Whereas inertial navigational systems of the day had an accuracy of two thousand feet per hour of flight, TER COM mated with an inertial system yielded an overall accuracy at impact many hours later of between one hundred and six hundred The Navy came to the idea of an underwater-launched cruise missile a little later, around 1970. One idea considered was to fit cruise missiles into the ten retir- ing Polaris submarines and to build a new class of nuclear-powered submarines to be armed with twenty vertical tubes to accom- modate cruise missiles. In January 1972 the Navy began a program on a strategic cruise missile that soon became known as the sea-launched cruise missile (SLCM), which eventually would be capable of surface, sub- surface, air, and ground launch. The timing was fortuitous because the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty (SALT I) agreement did not limit cruise missiles as it did other nuclear delivery systems. In  256 CHAPTER 10 November 1972 the Navy opted for a mis- sile launched from existing torpedo tubes, wh