ment as well as delivery of death and destruction. Follow- ing World War I theorists forecast that the airplane would be decisive in future wars by bombing enemy cities and industries and at the same time would be more humane and cheaper than methods of conventional warfare by avoiding a repeat of the drawn out stalemate and slaughter of the western front trenches. There are two critical ques- tions. Has strategic bombardment gotten a fair test? Has strategic bombardment delivered on the promises of its advocates? was aircraft capability, in World War II Amer- ica and Britain thrust enormous fleets of capable aircraft against Germany, as did the United States against Japan. Strategic bomb- ers dropped massive tonnages of bombs, destroyed much, and killed many, but were not decisive. In the end air power proved more significant in other roles, especially in the Atlantic antisubmarine campaign and the Pacific sea war. For despite enormous investments of resources, tremendous production and great innovation, the valor and ingenuity of the airmen, and substantial military and civilian casualties, the promises of the strategic bombing theorists and advo- cates of a quick and cheap victory were not realized. The strategic air war over Europe was but a high-tech version of the attrition warfare of World War I, this time fought in the skies. The dramatic and expensive bombing campaigns over both Germany and Japan were not war winners. World War II cast serious doubt, if not disproved, two key tenets of strategic bombing theory. First, the concept that is the United States enters the twenty-first century, its strategic Somber force has declined to fewer than one hundred B-1Bs (ver), fewer than one hundred B-52s (center), and a mere twenty Hos (upper). Strategic bombardment today is clearly different than fat of the last century, with increasing questions elout its utility and vith smaller aircraft and ballistic missiles piring and sometimes World War II was certainly a suita