ikes and people were not deliberately attacked. When the bombing stopped in mid- 1968, America had been defeated. While the indigenous insurgency in the South had been beaten, increased numbers of North Vietnamese took up the slack while the American will for the war had been 219 shattered. The considerable American bombing of North Vietnam (during Roll- ing Thunder the United States dropped three-quarters of the tonnage it unloaded on Germany and Japan during World War II) had not achieved McNaughton's five objectives. North Vietnamese morale did not decline, on the contrary it was enhanced by the bombing. South Vietnamese morale may have been helped, but not enough to positively affect the war effort. The bombing proved to be an ineffective bargaining chip; in fact, it was turned against the United States in both domestic and international politics. Infiltration was reduced from what it might have been, but the Communist supply requirements were meager and they demonstrated their ability to mass resources in the country-wide Tet Offensive in early 1968. Finally, Rolling Thunder may have shown U.S. determination, but to many it showed a wrong-headed policy. Along with the draft, American casualties, critical news coverage, and an apparent lack of progress, the bombing made the war increasingly unpopular. If anything, North Vietnam appeared stronger in body and mind during and after the bombing. A CIA report noted that it cost the United States eight dollars (in operating costs and aircraft lost) for every dollar of damage it inflicted in the North. More important, another intelligence report concluded that for every dollar of damage the North Vietnamese suffered, the Chinese and Soviets shipped in six dollars of assis- tance. A December 1968 study concluded that while Rolling Thunder had caused severe strain in the North, overall it was a net benefit to the government. Linebacker I The Vietnam War was just a bad memory for most Americans by the early 1970s. The U.S