iumphant German military, and with the prospect of defeat. Hitler assumed the British would show good sense and surrender to, or at least com- promise with, the inevitable. However, the Germans faced a situation unlike any they The Luftwaffe was better prepared for conducting a bomber offensive than either the U.S. or British air forces were when they began their later efforts. They had a large number of bombers, bases relatively close to their targets, night and bad- weather bombing aids, and escort fighters. Nevertheless these proved inadequate. The GAF shifted from attacks on the RAF to attacks on London for a variety of reasons, including faulty intelligence that indicated the RAF fighter force was spent. The former resulted from a German navigation error that led to the mistaken bombing of London on August 24. The British quickly 53 responded, although only twenty of the eighty-one bombers launched attacked Berlin. In retaliation the Germans began the infamous Blitz of London on September 7. This was a critical mistake. to be the crucial element in air combat in World War II.12 Both sides made serious miscalculations and proved ill prepared for the battle. In fairness, wars and battles never go according to plan. The British based their defense on the assumption that the Germans would be operating from German bases and therefore would only launch light bombing attacks. RAF equipment, pilot experience, and tactics were inadequate at the beginning of the battle, but both improved. On its part the Luftwaffe was better prepared, equipped, and experienced, albeit mainly as a tactical air force. The GAF had no plans for an air offensive against London and its successes against inferior air arms did not help it in a conflict against an equivalent one. German aircraft proved unsuited for the task at hand. Their best fighter, the Me 109, was range limited.13 Their stellar dive bomber, the Ju 87 Stuka, which had performed so well over Poland and Western Europe under an u