en its prop- powered Lancasters and Lincolns and its oncoming jet-powered bombers. The idea of borrowing B-29s emerged when the United States considered extending large military aid to its allies in the West in the spring of 1948. Thus the RAF would not only get a better performing bomber than the Lincoln to tide it over until jets came into service, but one that was proven and would cost nothing for development or construction. The first Washington arrived in Britain in March 1950, the eighty-seventh and last in June 1952, and most returned to the United States by the end of 1954. The Washington was more comfortable (it was pressurized unlike the Lancaster and Lincoln) and better performing than previous RAF four-engine bombers, but it proved expensive and dif- ficult to maintain because of a shortage of spare parts. The Boeing bombers equipped eight RAF medium bomber squadrons and, with its range about twice that of the Lin- coln, gave the British a delivery system that could reach into western Russia. The Soviet Threat The Soviets presented a growing aerial threat to the U.S. heartland as the years rolled by. The Americans initially down- graded that threat, underestimating how long it would take their rival to develop nuclear weapons and nuclear delivery systems. Ironically, the first intelligence esti- mates were better than the later ones. In the fall of 1945 the JCS believed it would take the Soviets five years to develop an atomic bomb. Later this estimate was extended by consensus to 1952-53, although the nuclear project manager, Leslie Groves, believed it would take the Russians at least ten years. In August 1949 the Soviets exploded their first nuclear device. The Tu-4 had a little less performance than its American sire partly due to the conversion from English measurements to the metric system, during which the dimen- sions were slightly increased which in turn increased weight. The only basic differences in the Russian version were to eventually change