ese ports. Mean- while the United States rapidly reinforced its air forces in Southeast Asia, including sending over half its B-52s to Guam and Thailand and boosting B-52s from 42 aircraft and 57 crews to 200 and 275, respec- tively. During the first six months of 1972 half of the B-52 flying hours were flown in Southeast Asia, a buildup that strained SAC to the extent that some of the nuclear war targets could not be covered. During the period April through October the airmen dropped 156,000 tons of bombs on North Vietnam, and because of the use of guided bombs, the bombing was more effective and cheaper than it had previously been. This was significant as the Communist invaders required large amounts of supplies to conduct their conventional attack, a far different situation from the minimal logistical requirements of the previous guerrilla war. Linebacker I was an overwhelming success and indicated what modern air power could do in a conventional conflict. Coupled with the resistance of the South Vietnam- ese ground forces, air power inflicted heavy casualties on the invading Communists and Initially most of the B-52 effort was in South Vietnam and only gradually did it cross the border. While SAC pushed for bombing North Vietnam, the the- ater commander strenuously insisted on keeping the Stratoforts bombing in South Vietnam. In April B-52s attacked targets in the North for the first time. By late May 221 interdicted their much needed supplies and halted the offensive. Linebacker II Hanoi/Haiphong area. Admiral Moorer told the SAC commander, "I want the people of Hanoi to hear the bombs." He added, how- ever, that he intended to "minimize damage to the civilian populace."4 Although the Air Force may have wanted to bomb the North with maximum effort for some time, SAC proved ill pre- pared for the campaign, lulled by its seven- year uncontested bombing experience. It had not run exercises against captured Soviet radars or SAMs or evaluated the viability of its ta