until June 1954 that the new version had a successful flight. Criticism grew along with the aerodynamic, cost, and scheduling prob- lems. SAC, the intended user, had concerns over the missile's ground and air vulnerabil- ity and in 1959 recommended the missile's cancellation but was overruled by Head- quarters Air Force. The key issues were guid- ance and reliability. On seven tests in the late 1950s the best CEP achieved was just over four nautical miles, but that was the only missile to reach the target area and one of only two to exceed forty-four hundred nau- tical miles. On the last ten launches of the program the guidance system demonstrated only a 50 percent chance of performing to specifications and only one of these missiles flew the planned distance. (JB-2) with a radar-controlled system that did much better, one-quarter mile accuracy at a one-hundred-mile range. The Navy also ran tests with the V-1 they named "Loon," accomplishing the first launch in January 1946. The sea service considered a variety of launch platforms for the missile, making the most efforts with surfaced submarines. The AAF began a more ambitious project in August 1945 with a requirement for a six-hundred-mile-per-hour, five- thousand-mile missile. Early the next year it awarded Northrop a study contract for two fifteen-hundred- to five-thousand-mile mis- siles, one subsonic and the other supersonic. The latter did not make it off the drawing board; the subsonic version first flew in April 1951. Snark was a sleek-looking craft with sharply swept wings, notable for its lack of cockpit, crew, and horizontal tail, that was launched by two solid-propellant rocket boosters, powered by a turbojet engine, and was recoverable. The USAF conducted twenty-one flights over the next year that proved the missile's airworthiness. Northrop installed an inertial navigation system moni- tored by stellar navigation, which it claimed could achieve a 1.4-nm CEP to meet the major challenge, accurate guidanc