g. 10. The Navy played up two differences: its system required two, not three, guidance stations and its booster was stowed with the missile and did not have to be attached just prior to launch, which reduced the men and equipment required and cut the time the submarine had to remain on the surface. 11. The warheads were programmed to impact in a triangular pattern to maximize destruction and minimize the overkill of a single large explosion. The three 200-kiloton warheads inflicted damage equivalent to 1 megaton. 12. The Poseidon C-3 and Trident I C-4 have the same dimensions (thirty-four feet long and seventy-four inches in diameter), although different weights, 65,000 pounds and 73,000 pounds, O 321 respectively. The Trident II D-5 is bigger: forty-four feet long, eighty-three inches in diameter, and much heavier at 130,000 pounds. 13. The TER COM maps of hostile territory were made possible by satellite imagery. recoverable and reusable. 14. One major advantage of the GD missile was that, unlike the Boeing cruise missile, it was 15. A 1964 study found the best Atlas effectiveness (measured by percentage on alert along with reliability of launch, inflight, and warhead reliability) to be in the 30 percent range, the best Titan in the low 40 percent range, and the early Minuteman in the 53-68 percent range. 16. The shortest distance between the United States and Russia is over the North Pole. 17. The MX was seventy-one feet in length and weighed about 195,000 pounds. 18. The scheme involved building twenty-three shelters for each missile and moving the one mis- sile and many decoys between these shelters on mobile transporter-erector-launchers. The Air Force wanted forty-six hundred shelters located over five thousand square miles, believing the system could survive an assault by ten thousand warheads. 19. The one hundred MX missiles would be based in superhard capsules spaced eighteen hun- dred feet apart, relying on the fratricide of incoming missiles to preclude