44. Although the strategic bombing between April and September 1944 period focused on supporting the ground forces, the AAF began a concerted effort against oil begin- ning in April, an effort reluctantly, but effectively followed by Bomber Command starting with an attack on June 12.The AAF exceeded RAF tonnage dropped on oil targets in eight of the last eleven months of the war and dropped 58 percent of the Allied tonnage on this target set. It should be noted, however, that RAF bombers delivered heavier bombs that caused much greater damage. Harris regarded oil as another panacea target and resisted orders from his superiors to concentrate on this objective and continued to blast cities. Meanwhile the tight German oil position was made worse by Soviet advances that by the end of August 1944 overran Polish and Rumanian oil fields. Bomber Command's efforts against oil targets in June did not go well when it sent out 832 bombers on three nights and lost 93 aircraft, 11.2 percent. Not only were losses high, results were limited. The British did better during the last quarter of the year, suffering only 1.1 percent losses against oil targets. fall and winter that hindered their efforts. Despite these problems, the bombing, com- bined with the capture of German occupied oil fields, was very effective in starving the German war machine. One of the reasons for the great success of the oil campaign was accurate intel- ligence, the best the airmen had for any of their targets. It can not be overemphasized that one of the perennial problems of strate- gic bombing is determining the key targets and their locations and assessing how badly they have been damaged by attack and thus when they should be reattacked. Through intercepted German radio traffic decoded by Ultra, the airmen enjoyed an advantage unique in the bombing campaign: precise, timely knowledge of the extent of the dam- age inflicted, that indicated when and which targets required reattack. (With this excep- tion,