corporated, however, the first of which pushed the range out to 220 miles. A second change saw service beginning in January 1945, when an SS battery employed a radio guide beam that enhanced accuracy. A short- age of equipment and technical factors lim- ited this modification's use to the one launch unit. The Germans conducted experiments with larger tanks on the missile that would extend range to three hundred miles and considered alternative launch platforms (can- isters towed by submarines and railroad cars), two-stage missiles, and winged versions. The cutting edge V-2 proved less effec- tive militarily than the cruder V-1; it was a technological wonder yet a military flop. It caused less physical damage than the winged missile, yet cost much more-resources that the Germans could ill afford. The V-2 caused less destruction than the V-1 because it carried a less powerful explosive (to lessen sensitivity to reentry heat) and its impact at Mach 3 tended to bury it deep in the ground, whereas the V-1's blast occurred higher in buildings and thus its effect was broader and more destructive. Because the V-2 gave no warning, there was less psy- chological impact compared with the Buzz Bomb. Finally, because the ballistic missile could not be countered, the Allies did not expend any resources in direct defense. The German missile campaign was hindered by quality control, air burst, and production difficulties, as well a shortage of liquid oxygen. The missile's accuracy was poor, at least 20 times worse than the 1936 goal of a less than one kilometer. In all the Germans fired twelve hundred rockets at London, 45 percent of which hit the city or nearby area, killing 2,800 and injuring 6,500. months earlier, the cross-Channel invasion "would have proved exceedingly difficult, perhaps impossible.")30 It was not that the V-weapons came too late in the war, but that they came too soon, before they were mature enough to be effective military weapons. In Summary During World Wa