e TSR.2 was the last all-British bomber and marked the end of the independent British military aviation industry, a sore point to some Britons to this day. Nevertheless, in the late 1950s a require- ment emerged for a long-range aircraft capable of supersonic speed at altitude and for target dash, as well as high subsonic speeds at low altitude. The specific require- ment called for a replacement of the Can- berra tactical bomber with an aircraft with a combat radius of one thousand nautical miles, the ability to deliver a nuclear weapon at low altitude, and the capability to carry sophisticated reconnaissance equipment. One obstacle to the new aircraft was the Royal Navy's NA.39 Buccaneer attack bomber, which first flew in April 1958. It was a fine aircraft, but the RAF objected to its lack of supersonic speed, short range, lim- ited avionics, and need for a long runway.35 In January 1959 Vickers-Armstrong and English Electric won a contract for the TSR.2, with the latter taking responsibility for the wings, rear fuselage, and tail and the former handling the rest. Multiple contrac- tors were part of a push by the govern- ment to rationalize the British aviation airframe and engine industry and adopt new managerial processes. These moves led to poor management from both industry and government. If this arrangement was  lock CHAPTER 8 206 BETWEEN KOREA AND VIETNAM The V-bombers gave the British a nuclear deterrent until Polaris submarines came on line and took over that responsibility in June 1969. These aircraft were fine machines that could outperform the B-47, their older, American medium bomber contempo- rary. However, during the early 1960s the V-bombers numbered only about 140 (October 1962) and were dwarfed by SAC, which at this point had 1,500 bombers on full alert. The V-bomber story demonstrated the prowess of the British aviation industry, the limits of the British economy, as well as the constraints of finances and politics on aircraft development and de