es were low, an F-117 and F-16 downed, although both pilots were rescued, and two American helicopter pilots killed when they crashed attempting to evade a SAM. In the seventy-eight-day conflict the B-2s flew forty-nine sorties and dropped 650 JDAMs, and the B-1s flew more than one hundred sorties delivering iron bombs. B-52s were also involved, launching AGM-86C cruise missiles. However, these bomber missions were only a small proportion of the more than thirty-five thousand sorties flown by NATO forces. Air power also was important in actions in the Middle East following the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001.That October, Operation Endur- ing Freedom opened against Afghanistan with strategic bomber (B-1B, B-2, and B-52), carrier aviation, and cruise missile strikes. The B-2s flew forty- to forty-four- hour missions from the United States, recov- ering at Diego Garcia before a direct return to the United States, while eight B-1Bs and ten B-52s were based on the island. These bombers used the GPS-guided JDAM and other munitions primarily against tactical targets as there were few strategic targets aside from initial strikes on command and control facilities. Late in the effort B-52s would loiter over the battlefield for on-call strikes. While the B-1Bs and B-52s flew only one-tenth of the total sorties, they dropped more than two-thirds of the ton- nage. There was no effective Afghan air Air power was very successful, but as has always been the case, not without compli- cations. There were several instances of refu- gees killed when NATO aircraft attacked bridges and what they thought were Serb military convoys. More serious was a B-2 strike that accurately hit a building in Belgrade believed to be a Serbian installa- tion that was in fact the Chinese embassy, killing three. The Chinese, and others, did not believe the embarrassed American explanation that an outdated map led to this bombing. Despite these glaring and much publicized incid