lew in December 1944, a mere seventy days after its initiation. Heinkel built about one hundred, although none saw action. The Germans had a clear advantage over the Allies with jet and rocket propul- sion as the British jet-powered Meteor had an inferior top speed (493 mph) and only saw combat against the V-1s. The first true American jet fighter, the P-80, was even further behind in production. The British and American airmen beat the jet threat the old fashioned way, with superior numbers. The Allies successfully attacked the jets where they were most vulnerable, on takeoff and landings. Main- tenance problems (the jet engines had to be overhauled after only a few hours of opera- tion) and well-trained Allied pilots were also keys to the failure of the jets to regain air superiority. The Eighth Air Force claimed that 740 of its bombers and 1,200 of its fighters encountered jet and rocket fighters, of which 52 bombers and 10 fighters were lost, and in exchange 183 Me 262s and 6 Me 163s were destroyed. A more recent source claims that the Me 262s destroyed 446 Allied aircraft at the cost of 190 Me 262s. million men manned the heavy guns at their maximum strength, although less than a third were flak troops, the rest boys, prisoners of war, factory workers, and limited-service troops. During the course of the war numer- ous improvements increased flak effective- ness. Radar control was one of the most important, although the Germans trailed the British in its use, and as late as August 1944 were still using more than fifty-five hundred sound detectors. The Luftwaffe introduced dual fuses (contact and timed) into combat in 1944, which increased the 88-mm hit rate by five times, the 105-mm rate by three, and the 128-mm rate by two. Controlled fragmentation (groove projectiles) increased projectile effectiveness. Nevertheless, flak proved disappointing to the defenders. Prior to the war the Germans estimated that on average forty-seven shells would down an aircraft whi