GAF used to combat the British bombers was to form an intruder unit in mid-1940 consisting of a small num- ber of Ju 88s and Do 17s. These attacked the bombers over Britain where they were most vulnerable, as they departed their bases burdened by heavy fuel and bomb loads and when they returned with limited fuel and possible damage, in a sky cluttered with aircraft that could not be easily identified. Fortunately for Bomber Command the Germans did not embrace this tactic, never getting more than 20 aircraft serviceable at one time, and canceling the operation in fall 1941. Hitler wanted bombers downed over the Fatherland where Germans could see the result. Only a few small intruder operations were flown later, and in all the unit downed perhaps one hundred British aircraft. This was a major opportunity missed by the defenders of the Reich. area as rapidly as possible to swamp the boxes. Electronic countermeasures further undermined the German defensive system, which impeded both ground and airborne radar and GCI. The missing rate declined in the last half of 1943 to 3.4 percent. The Luftwaffe responded with revised tactics and improved equipment. Tactically the Germans began in July 1943 to use free- lance single-engine day fighters guided by ground pyrotechnic signals and searchlights in a system known as Wilde Sau (Wild Boar) and steadily increased their numbers to one hundred by early 1944. Accidents were high because these aircraft had short endurance, and rudimentary navigation equipment, were piloted by some rejects from line units, and were operated in all kinds of weather at night. The Germans also widened the night fighter belt and developed the system so that more than two fighters could be simulta- neously guided in the same box. A better solution was Zahme Sau (Tame Boar), twin- engine fighters that orbited a beacon and then plunged into the bomber stream, indi- cated by the Pathfinders' route markers and the bombers' radar track and signal's emis- sions