Soviet Union was a much more dif- ficult target than either Germany or Japan because of the greater distance between bases and targets, Russia's larger size, inad- equate maps, and poorer intelligence. The airmen were forced to rely on outdated German intelligence materials and informa- tion from refugees, both grossly inadequate for the task at hand. One consistent concern throughout the Cold War was a fear of a Pearl Harbor-type attack, especially after the Soviets obtained nuclear weapons. Intelligence and War Plans Intelligence was critical. The Chinese intervention in Korea heightened tensions and in December 1950 prompted President Harry Truman to authorize reconnaissance overflights of the Communist bloc nations. American allies, specifically the British and Nationalist Chinese, participated in this effort as well. The Americans used aircraft, as well as camera-equipped balloons in 1956 and 1958, to probe Communist air space. Western intelligence markedly improved with the introduction of the Lockheed U-2. The first U-2 overflight of the Soviet Union took place in early July 1956 and continued until a U-2 was shot down in May 1960. The spy plane made about two dozen penetrations of Soviet air space and flew fifty-one sorties worldwide. There were also 159 photo and electronic reconnaissance mis- sions along the periphery of the Communist bloc. On these missions only one American loss was clearly inside the Soviet Union, despite many attempted intercepts, some exchange of fire, and a few hits. However, through mid-1960 the Communists did shoot down approximately a dozen USAF and Navy aircraft near the coast.6 Some of these aircraft may have inadvertently strayed inside Soviet territory while others were surely well outside the borders. plans called for an extended nuclear bom- bardment campaign as the atomic bombs became available, along with a much larger conventional one. The airmen intended to hit Soviet oil installations with night, radar- guided, solo bom