nd flexible wing also created control problems: decreasing aileron effectiveness at high speeds and, as 185 speed increased, aileron reversal.5 The bomb- er's high speed, clean airframe, and aileron issues meant that momentary inattention could result in an uncontrollable condition; if neglected, the B-47 quickly become very unforgiving. The XB-47 featured a bubble canopy over the pilots seated in tandem, resulting in a very streamlined ("clean") aircraft with superb looks and outstanding performance. The XB-47 made its first flight on December 17, 1947, the last of the forties series to fly, on the forty-forth anniversary of manned flight. Although the bomber ini- tially fell short of expected performance due to its J 35 engines, it was seventy-five miles per hour faster than both the competing XB-46 and XB-48.The Air Force wanted  s lock 186 CHAPTER 8 BETWEEN KOREA AND VIETNAM the bomber from the outset, although the production go-ahead was not given until September 1948. The first B-47A reached SAC in Octo- ber 1951 and proved a handful. The aircraft was underpowered and brakes were unsatis- factory, which meant that takeoff and land- ings required lots of runway and alert pilots. Landing approaches were also hazardous because the engines were slow to accelerate (spool up from idle to full power took seven to eight seconds), making go-arounds tricky. The "A" model was hardly an operational aircraft; it was unarmed, and only four of the ten built initially came equipped with the bombing-navigation system. unsafe for high-altitude operations while the navigation-bombing system proved unreli- able and difficult to maintain. An October 1954 inspector general report stated that the latter was the major limiting factor on the B-47's combat capability. In addition the Air Force cancelled the original tail gun system. In its place Boeing installed on the first 300 B-47Bs twin .50s fitted with radar warning but without radar gun laying and therefore capable of only harass