S. prop bomber capable of carrying a hydrogen bomb. The Harry Truman administration authorized develop- ment of the super bomb in January 1950, and the first was tested in November 1952. It had a yield of 10 megatons, a tremen- dous increase in power over the first atomic bomb, which had a yield of 15 kilotons. However, the early H bombs were huge and heavy (measuring twenty feet in length and weighing twenty-five tons), demand- ing a large bomber. One major concern regarding the bomb's great power and the B-36's slow speed was crew survival from the bomb's explosion. Therefore a parachute was attached to the weapon to slow its descent and give the bomber more time to exit the scene. The B-36 played a crucial role in provid- ing U.S. nuclear deterrence in the 1950s, despite all of its problems. It earned the dis- tinction of being the last prop bomber in the SAC inventory and the safest.19 It is probably best remembered by the public, however, not for its importance in its assigned mission but  172 CHAPTER 7 THE POSTWAR ERA 173 A more serious challenge to the Air Force was the Navy's North American AJ-1 Savage, seen here aboard the aircraft carrier Wasp. The hybrid bomber, powered by two prop engines and one jet engine, first flew in June 1948 and gave the Navy a nuclear capability when it became operational two years later. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) The Korean War The American focus on a conventional war in Europe and an all-out nuclear war was jarred by the Korean War, which erupted in June 1950. Nevertheless the United States and United Nations quickly responded, sending military forces into the battle. The fighting seesawed across the former border between the two Koreas, drew in the Chinese, settled into a two-year stalemate, created massive frustration from its cost and indecisiveness, and burned out after causing widespread destruction and massive casualties. Yalu River close to the Chinese and Soviet borders and sheltered from American bombs by th