ial assault, the so-called "knock out blow," more than any other country. In 1924 the RAF estimated that based on World War I experience, one ton of bombs would inflict fifty casualties and that the French, the posited enemy of the day, had the ability to inflict more than twenty thousand casualties in the first week of hostilities and twice that with a maxi- mum effort. These beliefs led the British to downgrade the importance of the air superiority battle and to emphasize strategic bombing with an air force composed of twice as many bombers as fighters. In the mid-1920s the RAF also held that long- range fighters were unnecessary for bomber protection. On one key point the British concept differed from Douhet's. While the British held that victory could be had by breaking enemy morale, this was not to be done by bombing people but by bombing the factories that employed them. The RAF explicitly rejected the idea of indiscriminate terror bombing, and unlike Douhet, who thought the chemical weapons ban would be quickly broken, did not foresee the use of poison gas in a future war. However, the airmen did not make clear how the facto- ries could be destroyed without killing the workers and their families who lived nearby. The British feared a "knock out blow" a "bolt out of the blue" bombing offensive against London, which was not just their capital but also their economic and social center. London was seen to be more vulner- able than any other European city because of its population concentration and its short distance from the coast and to poten- tial enemy air bases on the Continent. In Churchill's words, London was "a tremen- dous fat cow ... tied up to attract the beasts of prey."25 In fact, British leaders had sought an international prohibition of bombing even before the Wrights's first flight.26 In the early 1930s the world community discussed general disarmament, and the British made several attempts to abolish aerial bom- bardment. These efforts got hung up