t, it did lead to high absenteeism at the factories, rising to 12 percent in the undamaged aircraft plants and 40 percent in those damaged. And the bombing did have an impact on the think- ing of the top leaders. Therefore the most important contribution that the bombing campaign made to victory over Japan were connected with mining and morale. There are those who believe the bomb- ing could have defeated Japan without the planned invasion. These included not only top AAF leaders (Arnold and LeMay) but also the USSBS, which stated that "even without the atomic bombing attacks, air supremacy over Japan could have exerted sufficient pressure to bring about uncon- ditional surrender and obviate the need for invasion."24 The official AAF history quoted two Japanese decision makers who stated that the B-29 was the basis of the Japanese surrender. A more balanced view is that the bombing devastated Japan but did not win the war. Instead its greatest impact was to reinforce the blockade and depress Japanese morale. This is ironic in view of the prewar theories and wartime operations. Any critique of the bombing of Japan has to begin with the realization that the bombing was intended to support an inva- sion of Japan, which was to be the war win- ning blow. The authoritative United States Strategic Bombing Survey states that the Japanese economy was destroyed twice: first by the blockade and then by the bombing. It held that the blockade should have been given greater attention and that shipping and railroads should have been the focus. There are some who insist that the urban bombing was wrong and that precision bombing should have been pursued. The most vocal advocate of this view, during and after the war, was Haywood Hansell. He believed precision bombing was feasible and would have been less costly in civilian lives, although it would have taken months longer. Strategic Bombing and Morality Having discussed the strategic bombing of World War II, the mass deaths of civi