wever, indicated a wide dispersal of bombs and showed that the mission had failed. Late in the month Spitfire photos of two oil facilities at Gelsenkirchen revealed that although the majority of 196 aircrews claimed they attacked these targets, there was no indication of important repair work and little sign of the 260 tons of bombs. The realization of these shortcomings led Bomber Command in the first quarter of 1941 to switch from precision attacks to attacks on cities, specifically designating the "industrial centers" of large German cities as the aiming point. 71 Nevertheless the command's oil plan of January 1941 assumed that under the best conditions of moonlight and visibility, the bombers could achieve an average bombing error of three hundred yards. In April 1941 Bomber Command more than doubled this figure and acknowledged that the error was probably closer to one thousand yards. But even this concession was overly optimistic. In the March 12, 1941, attack of the Focke- Wulf plant in Bremen, fewer than one-third of the bombs hit within six hundred yards of the plant. If that was the situation with moonlight and good weather, bombing accuracy could be expected to be far worse under less favorable conditions. The severity of the problem was driven home by the Butt Report based on 650 photos taken in June and July 1941 during one hundred separate attacks. The photos revealed that only one-third of the crews that reported attacking their targets got within five miles, varying greatly due to location, moonlight, weather, and enemy opposition. Clearly Bomber Command's navigational skills were inadequate.1 seem to be the case. By the end of 1940 the bombers' primary aim was oil in favorable conditions, otherwise morale attacks against Berlin and cities in central and western Ger- many. In December 1940 the British Minis- try of Information opined that the Germans could not take one-quarter of the bombing that the British had withstood. Apparently more than the pr