IFF, radar, and aircraft detectors. One of the most significant improvements was to arm the night fighters with heavier forward firing cannon (up to 30 mm) and twin upward firing cannon. The latter, code named Schrage Musik (slanting, or jazz music), achieved its first kill in May 1943 and went into service in the fall of 1943. It allowed the night fighters to approach the bombers in their blind spot, below and behind the bomber using the earth's darker background to mask their presence from the bomber's tail gunner (few British bombers had ventral gunners). It was very effective. On the other hand, the GAF were unable to upgrade to more capable aircraft. The Me 210 turned out badly, and a more capable night fighter, the He 219, was shunned, delayed, and only appeared in small numbers, which forced the Luftwaffe to rely on the older and less capable Ju 88G. Bomber losses increased from below 4 percent of those dispatched for the period July through November 1943 to over that figure for the following three months. And while the monthly loss rate in March 1944 declined to 3.1 percent, Bomber Com- mand suffered two clear defeats against Berlin (March 24, seventy-two bombers, 8.8 percent) and Nuremberg (March 30, ninety- four bombers, 11.8 percent). Even with the change of targets brought on by the Nor- mandy invasion and the decline in monthly losses (less than 2.5 percent after March 31), the RAF continued to suffer high losses in attacks on Germany, 8.4 percent on July 28 for example. Despite these successes early in the year, the Luftwaffe lost both day and night air superiority during 1944. In the end it was factors outside of Bomber Command that allowed it to successfully operate at night. One factor was the attrition of night fighter crews in combat operations and flying accidents in night and bad weather. The night fighters suffered additional and heavy losses in daylight battles in 1944 against AAF formations of heavily armed bombers and especially against esco