ed minor damage on four aircraft. Two F-111s were lost, one believed to have flown into the sea when its navigational equipment failed and one to small-arms fire that ruptured the hydraulic system, a case of a "golden BB." So while the aircraft's combat performance improved from the 1968 debut, it still was not up to what might be expected from such a sophisticated machine. But there would be other days and other wars. GD built a bomber version of the F-111 for SAC. The slow development of the advanced manned strategic aircraft (AMSA, later B-1), insurance against a major B-52 "catastrophe," along with the prospect of early B-52 retirement, pushed the USAF as early as 1963 to consider acquiring an interim bomber, a decision the secretary of defense announced in December 1965. SAC was hostile to the F-111 because it wanted the B-70. Two colonels sent by LeMay to brief the SAC commander on the GD aircraft were admonished and kicked off the base. That did not change events. Although SAC sought a bomber with minimum The General Dynamics FB-111 was an enlarged version of the controversial F-111. Initially SAC did not want this bomber, although it had some flying and tactical advantages over its serving bombers. Here the bomber has its wings in the full forward position with four SRAM missiles underwing. (National Museum of the USAF) 229 changes from the fighter version in order to get it into service as quickly as possible, the secretary of defense wanted better than that. Thus compared with the F-111 the FB-111 had longer wings and fuselage, larger fuel tanks, more powerful engines, and a strengthened landing gear to allow greater weights.11 While it had capabilities superior to the B-47 and B-58, it lacked the bomb load, range, and crew the Air Force desired. The FB-111 made its maiden flight in July 1967. The bomber showed its promise when in its first appearance it took top honors in bombing at SAC's 1970 combat competition and went on to win a number of these annual