ild a chain of thirty radar stations across southern Canada known as the Pinetree Line, which was completed by the end of 1955. An agree- ment in 1954 pushed the radar warning farther north with the Mid-Canada Line, built along the fifty-fifth parallel, and the Distant Early Warning (DEW) Line, north of the Arctic Circle along the sixty-ninth parallel and extending from Alaska across Greenland. The three-thousand-mile DEW Line, which became operational in August 1957, consisted of sixty-three stations. The advent of the ballistic missiles, both ICBMs and SLBMs, changed the equation, for while flight times of bombers from detection to target could be measured in hours, flight time for ballistic missiles was measured in minutes. More powerful radars were fielded with the first very long radar, ballistic missile early warning system (BMEWS), sited in Thule, becoming operational in February 1961. Along with two other later installa- tions built in Britain and Alaska, BMEWS gave over-the-horizon warning of ballistic missiles launched from the Soviet Union. This system was supplemented by the mis- sile defense alarm system (Midas), a satellite that used infrared sensors to detect missile launches and began tests in the early 1960s. SAC made other tactical changes as well. It adopted low-level tactics to counter Soviet SAMs and reduce the range of radar detection.15 Early warning radar could detect high-altitude bombers at 150 to 200 nm and low-flying aircraft at no more than 30 nm. Low-flying aircraft rendered airborne interception ineffective, degraded AAA, and largely nullified air-to-air missiles. By mid-1960 three-quarters of SAC strike sorties were planned at low level. These tac- tics put additional demands on the bombers and crews. Hazards such as bird and insect strikes had to be overcome, along with the challenges of high-speed, low-altitude navigation (50 to 60 percent of which was visual), crew fatigue and airsickness (as many as 15 percent of the crews sufferi