pared with the rest of the winter bombing. Despite these more vulnerable tactics, the Eighth's losses were low: seven bombers and thirteen fighters lost and one fighter junked. Clarion continued the next day, but weather interfered so that only 470 bombers hit the primary targets and 720 hit targets of opportunity. Losses again were low, two bombers lost and five written off, along with eight fighters downed and two scrapped. The operation demonstrated the weakness of GAF defenses and power of the Allied air forces but did not strike an espe- cially hard blow. German morale held up, as did the transportation system. The most significant mission following the Dresden attacks of mid-February was Operation Clarion, a maximum Allied air effort of both strategic and tactical forces on German transportation, specifically marshaling yards, railway stations, barges, and bridges. It had originated as an attack on German morale, specifically visual attacks on small German communications centers. A number of top AAF leaders objected to this plan on moral grounds, Eaker writing on January 1, 1945, that "we should never allow the history of this war to convict us [of] throwing the strategic bombers at the man in the street. I think there is a better way we can do our share to defeat the enemy."31 (He went on to state that if the AAF was to attack civilians, it should wait until morale was lower and the weather was better.) The bombing continued as the war ground to a close. On April 7, 1945, the Eighth launched more than thirteen hundred bombers against targets in central and northern Germany and lost seventeen bombers and five fighters, writing off five bombers and two fighters. The mission is notable because a number of GAF fighters attempted to ram the bombers and did down seven and damage three others in this manner. Germans losses were high, with the bombers claiming the destruction of sixty-two fighters and the escort sixty-seven. The remaining missions of April are best r