mission against Japan to coincide with the invasion of Saipan. On June 13 the XXth dispatched ninety-two bombers to China, a dozen of which landed short of their destination and one was lost. On the fifteenth sixty-eight B-29s lifted off on a night attack of a steel plant in southern Japan. It cost the AAF five bombers to get forty-seven to the primary. The payoff was slim; intelligence officers could account for only 28 percent of the bombs released and found the closest struck thirty-seven hun- dred feet from the aiming point. So bombs fell on Japan, which was a psychological blow, but they were not of any military value. The missions that followed were similar, great effort achieving limited results. Logis- tics restricted the number of operations from the Chinese bases, while the B-29's range and Chinese bases confined the 137 strikes to targets in southern Japan. In fact the B-29s flew only nine raids against Japa- nese targets from China. One of these was flown the same day (August 10) as the AAF attacked a key oil facility in Sumatra. This was impressive, at least on paper, because the two targets, Palembang and Nagasaki, were three thousand miles apart. The oil attack was notable as perhaps the longest nonstop bombing mission of the war, thirty-seven hundred statute miles round trip. To achieve this distance the bomb load was reduced to one ton and the operation was flown at night, below twenty thousand feet, by individual aircraft. The mission staged out of Ceylon, and again the force made little to no military impact with the thirty- eight tons of bombs and mines dropped by thirty-nine bombers. Although some aircraft flew as long as eighteen hours, only one was lost. The mission against Nagasaki consisted of sixty-one bombers attacking in the daylight and ten (delayed by a takeoff crash that blocked the runway for hours) at night. The daylight attack is notable as it was the first major aerial clash between the B-29s and the Japanese defenders. The Japa- n