mbing was con- ducted there. Observers noted that bombing accuracy was poor but that Germans did better than their allies and foes. This may have resulted from the superior National- ist (specifically German) antiaircraft fire that forced Republican aircraft to bomb from higher altitudes than Nationalist bombers. Antiaircraft artillery was effective, with the  CHAPTER 2 THE INTERWAR YEARS 45 nembisamor and limitations of bombardment aircraft were not properly tested in Spain. So let us be careful not to draw lessons about heavy bombardment from air work in that theater."36 Civil wars are not conductive to strategic bombing because both sides wish to preserve the economic base. Franco did just this, on occasion criticizing his allies for bombing Spanish cities. Thus air power was restrained: There were no concerted attacks on strategic targets. Germans' rated as excellent. One significant conclusion was that bombing cities did not break civilian morale; in fact, the observers concluded that civilian morale hardened. Simply put, some observers believed that terror bombing had failed and Douhet had been repudiated.34 The observers concluded that converted transports were not adequate bombers. Perhaps more noteworthy for American airmen, the consensus was that bomber operations required fighter escort. One American observer reported that the theory of bomber invulnerability "no longer holds."The Air Corps' own organ empha- sized that the "comparison of an airplane to a flying fortress is possible only in the minds of the theorists."35 The observers pushed for greater speed for both fighters and bombers, some asserting that additional guns were no substitute for more speed. One report held that many believed that future bombing would be done at night. There were those who questioned the validity of lessons drawn from Spain. George Kenney, one of the United States' top air generals during and after World War II, wrote that there was no legitimate test of air power in Spai