ter of a nuclear exchange that did not occur. At first long-range strategic bombers were the only nuclear delivery system, then  300 CONCLUSION ( LIBRARIES 432 SOURCE NOTES Command in the late 1950s are now vague memories. Today the United States fields the world's most powerful military force, the largest air force, the most strategic bombers, yet it has less than two hundred bombers in its inventory. Air power will continue to be important, perhaps even decisive, in future military operations, but not strategic bombing as waged by bombers in the mid- twentieth century. As long as the wars of the major powers remain constrained, strategic bombardment will be restrained and its successes limited. For lesser powers, the acquisition of nuclear weapons and modern strategic delivery systems may lead in a somewhat different direction. counterproductive results as seen in Korea and Vietnam. And as the present war in Iraq has affirmed, strategic bombing has no place in civil or guerrilla wars, or against terror- ists. Advocates argue that the air campaign against Serbia in 1999 and, with a little more time, the bombardment of Iraq in 1991 demonstrated that strategic bombardment alone could win wars. (Detractors, however, counter that there were other factors and, especially, that both countries were com- pletely without outside support and thus doomed to defeat.) A further change is the transformation of the threat to the United States following the collapse of the Soviet Union. America's present overwhelming conventional military power makes a conventional war against the United States unwinnable and thus unlikely. As recent events have indicated, the more plausible threat to the United States is a conflict at a lower level, guerrilla war or terrorism. Strategic bombardment can only play a minor or supporting role in such wars. Other nations may, and probably will, engage in conventional wars, but aside from nuclear deterrents, none have a major strategic bombardment capa