t visual bombing day after August 3 on one of four targets: Hiroshima, Kokura, Niigata, and Nagasaki. Additional bombs would be dropped on these targets as soon as they were ready. The Americans launched six B-29s on August 6, the Enola Gay, piloted by Tibbets and named after his mother, carrying the bomb. The mission went off almost flawlessly with the weapon exploding (Right) Col. Paul Tibbets commanded the unit that in August 1945 employed two atomic bombs against Japan. He piloted the B-29 Enola Gay, named after his mother, which dropped the first bomb on Hiroshima. (Historical Research Agency, USAF) ENOLA GAY 82 NO SME WITHIN 147  48 CHAPTER 6 RAZING JAPAN over Hiroshima with a force equivalent to 12,500 tons ofTNT. The city was caught completely by surprise for although an air raid warning had been sounded, the alert was can- celled twenty minutes later. Because of the crowded urban conditions, dry weather, Japanese construction, and lack of prior bomb damage the city was fire prone. The blast destroyed 4.7 square miles of the city; this is relatively easy to measure, while the death toll is more difficult to determine. Initial American estimates were between 64,000 and 86,000 killed, a figure that later (1947) was raised to 100,000; Japanese stud- ies put the number at 130,000. Whatever the precise figure, the casualties were very high and a considerable proportion of the quarter of a million inhabitants. The airmen scheduled a second nuclear attack for August 11, but a forecast of poor weather forced the airmen to advance the timetable. On August 9 Maj. Charles Sweeney flew Bockscar toward its primary target, Kokura. In contrast to the first mis- sion, he ran into various problems. Sweeney made three passes on cloud-covered Kokura before diverting to his secondary target because his orders were to bomb only under visual conditions. Running short of fuel, and harassed by the weather, he began his bomb run using radar and only at the last moment did the bombar