ed another device (General Motors A-1) into mid- 1943, again with little success. There were other experiments with radio-controlled aircraft during the war and some combat trials. The Navy tested drones equipped with TV seekers and radio control in the Pacific theater. A more ambitious project, Aphrodite, was conducted by both the AAF and Navy in Europe. This used worn-out heavy bombers, stripped of nonessential flight equipment, crammed with nine tons of explosive, and equipped with radio control gear and in some cases television sensors. A crew of two got the Aphrodite aircraft airborne, adjusted the equipment, set the fuses, and bailed out; then a mother ship guided the bomber into its target. The missions, between August 1944 and January 1945, were rendered ineffective by mechanical problems, weather, vulnerability, and inaccuracy. The top airmen also noted that Aphrodite was a terror weapon, which ran counter to AAF doctrine.2 Nevertheless, the airmen experimented after the war with a modified B-29, but problems led to its cancellation in April 1949. The Germans made a direct contribution to American programs. The United States quickly reverse engineered the V-1, began flight tests in October 1944, and planned to launch one thousand a day by January 1946. Practical matters intervened. The program would have taken up huge resources, cut- ting artillery production by 25 percent and bomb production by 17 percent as well as absorbing vast amounts of shipping. When production terminated in September 1945, fourteen hundred had been built. The Americans did improve the missile's accu- racy, achieving an average error of 5 miles at a 150-mile range in a postwar test. In addition the airmen equipped their version  240 CHAPTER 10 and failures during testing, and it was not until June 1954 that the new version had a successful flight. Criticism grew along with the aerodynamic, cost, and scheduling prob- lems. SAC, the intended user, had concerns over the missile's ground