wever, was political, regarding the aircraft's range. Although American intel- ligence sources were divided, some thought the bomber was capable of intercontinental missions, a significant issue as the Ameri- cans and Russians attempted to hammer out an arms limitation treaty. Consequently the Soviets agreed to remove the refueling probe from the Backfire to preclude it from serving as an intercontinental bomber. (To allay fears that the bomber could be quickly Khrushchev and the Soviet missile establishment were instrumental in cutting Soviet long-range bombers and canceling a number of promising aircraft. However, the development of the American B-1 bomber pushed the Soviets to build a correspond- ing aircraft. (However, the Russian bomber remained in development even after the United States cancelled the B-1 in 1977, lending credence to the American lament that when the United States built arms, the Soviets built arms, and when the United States stopped building arms, the Soviets built arms.) The insistence on long range and the need to be able to use existing air- fields forced the Russians to use a variable  212 CHAPTER 8 BETWEEN KOREA AND VIETNAM maintenance issues. The designers decreased its radar signature with the use of radar- absorbing materials on the intakes, special paint on the forward fuselage, screens on the engines, and wire mesh glazing on the canopy. It was fitted with aerial refuel- ing capability, although SALT restrictions rendered it unused. The Blackjack set forty- four world records for speed, payload, and distance during 1989-90. geometry design despite the weight penalty. The authorities did not believe that Mya- sishchev could produce his design, so it was given to Tupolev to develop, which by 1973 became the basis for the Tu-160. The bomber featured a variable geom- etry wing, a blended wing and fuselage, and would be the first large Soviet aircraft to employ fly-by-wire controls. Tupolev considered a number of different configura- tio