and damage three others in this manner. Germans losses were high, with the bombers claiming the destruction of sixty-two fighters and the escort sixty-seven. The remaining missions of April are best remembered for the high number of claims of GAF aircraft destroyed on the ground: on April 10, 335; on April 16, 727; and on April The mission contrasted with the Eighth's previous operations by assaulting from half the normal bombing altitude (to ten thou- sand feet, with some units bombing from as low as six thousand feet), in small formations  CHAPTER 5 U.S. STRATEGIC BOMBING IN EUROPE 17, 293. The Eighth's last strategic bombing mission of the war was on April 25 against targets in Czechoslovakia and Austria. All of the 550 bombers that bombed unloaded on their primary targets; six Forts were lost and three were written off. The AAF fighters flew almost five hundred sorties and claimed one bomber, although another fighter engaged a twin-engine aircraft that was later identified as a Soviet bomber. Two fighters were lost and another two were scrapped. AAF and RAF Bombing Accuracy The subject of bombing accuracy is a dif- ficult one. Photos interpreters could not account for all bombs dropped and excluded gross errors, resulting in figures that were optimistic. Despite these serious limita- tions we can draw some tentative general conclusions. Accuracy of visual bombing improved as the war progressed, although this was not a straight line trend as larger formations attacking the same target, higher bombing altitudes, weather, smoke, and stiff German defenses degraded accuracy. Aside from the defenses, the biggest problems were the weather and season. The AAF heavy bombers aimed 40 percent of their bombs by nonvisual means, two-thirds of this by radar. Under the best circumstances non- visual bombing (radar in 5/10s visibility or Gee-H) had a CEP of one mile, while visual bombing under the best circumstances (good to fair visibility) had a CEP of about one-third mile; h