espite obscured visibility (smoke, fog, cloud, or haze) that inhibited LGBs as well as gave a "launch-and-leave" capabil- ity, which further decreased vulnerability. (However, GPS-guided munitions are not as accurate as laser-guided ones and could be jammed.) In 1996 the United States deployed the GPS-aided munition (GAM), a 1-ton bomb guided by an inertial and GPS system. A more recent development is the joint direct attack munition (JDAM), a 1,000- and 2,000-pound bomb, with the same type of guidance system. It is a cheap tail kit that in tests produced a CEP of thirty feet. It went into service in the late 1990s. The joint stand-off weapon (JSOW) employs GPS and inertial guidance and has folding wings to extend its range. Whereas a free-fall bomb (the JDAM, for example) has a range of about fifteen nautical miles, JSOW can reach that distance from a low- level release and forty nautical miles from an altitude release. It is also guided by GPS and inertial systems and achieves the same accuracy. It has a modular warhead (sub- munitions, antiarmor, or unitary) and first saw combat in 1999. The greatly enhanced Air power saw action in the Balkans in the 1990s after the death of the Yugo- slav dictator JosefTito in 1980 led to the disintegration of the polyglot state. In 1991 Slovenia broke away in a ten-day conflict that cost sixty-two lives; Croatia quickly fol- lowed, although it had a more difficult time. Ethnic violence in Bosnia-Herzegovina was far worse. Brutality, ethnic cleansing, and massacres prompted a UN and NATO intervention that included air patrols that began in October 1992 and some air action. Bosnian Serb ground action triggered a seventeen-day air campaign (Operation Deliberate Force) August-September 1995 that obtained acceptable results for UN/ NATO forces without strategic bombard- ment. There was no military need for such assets, the use of heavy bombers might send the wrong diplomatic signals, and for politi- cal reasons the Italians would no