tions. The Soviets also were engaged in ABM efforts. The Griffon was an enlarged SAM resembling the SA-2 ofVietnam War fame that began flight tests in 1957 and report- edly intercepted a ballistic missile in March 1961.The Soviets deployed it outside of Leningrad in 1960, but by the end of 1964 they abandoned these installations. At the same time the Russians began site construc- tion for the SA-5 Gammon, which some believe had ABM capability and which became operational in 1968. In 1966 the Soviets built sites for a much larger ABM, the Galosh, around Moscow. Although Western intelligence did not consider it an effective weapon, the Soviets put it into ser- vice in 1970. The Russians were determined The Army pushed forward with the Nike Zeus project. It began missile tests in August 1959 and in December 1961 intercepted a ballistic missile over the White Sands range. (Interception consisted of getting the two missiles within the lethal radius of the defending missile's nuclear warhead, which was not used in the test.) On two tests in December 1962 at Kwajalein atoll the Zeus intercepted Atlas Ds and was successful in seven, and partially successful in two, of the next Atlas and Titan tests. Because there were doubts about the feasibility of the sys- tem, two new technologies were advanced.  US CHAPTER 10 274 MISSILES public as "Star Wars." He put forth the radical idea of making offensive nuclear weapons obsolete by relying not on arms-control agreements but on superior technology. The program faced monumental technical and financial obstacles that were overshadowed by the Soviet Union's collapse in 1991. Some credit SDI with triggering the breakup by making clear to the Soviets their permanent trailing position in technology and econom- ics and the impossibility of closing that gap. to build an ABM system, according to two American secretaries of defense, spending two and a half to four times as much money in this pursuit as the United States. In the June 1967 Gla