rophet of the ridiculous."14 Douhet trained in the artillery arm and went on to serve on the Italian General Staff early in the twentieth century. After Italy's entry into World War I, Douhet pushed hard for a massive aviation build up, but his criticism of Italy's floundering war effort led to his court-martial and a one-year prison sentence. However, Italy's poor wartime performance allowed him to gain a high position in Italy's air arm dur- ing the conflict, although his court-martial was not reversed until the war's end. He was promoted to general and later became a supporter of Benito Mussolini, who gave him a high position after coming to power, although in short order he resigned. He died in 1930, only a few years before his ideas would be tried and tested in the largest war in man's history. States. An article on Douhet by the Italian air attaché was published in an American aviation periodical in 1922 and excerpts of his work reached the American airmen in 1922, followed shortly by a translation of The Command of the Air. A translation of the second edition of the book was in circula- tion in the Air Corps in 1933, and Douhet was mentioned in Air Corps Tactical School lectures in the 1930s. Douhet wrote that the next war would be a total war with no boundaries in regards to geography or targets. He saw no defense against aircraft. "No fortifications can pos- sibly offset these new weapons, which can strike mortal blows into the heart of the enemy with lightning speed," he noted, add- ing that "with the air arm it is easy to strike but not to parry."15 He maintained that the "air arm is eminently offensive," and went on to hold that it is "completely unsuitable for defensive action."16 Because there was no way to stop bombing operations, all effort must go into offensive operations and com- batants must absorb the bombing attacks and endure losses to inflict more damage. Therefore the airmen should concentrate on independent (read: strategic) opera- tions, n