t by the end of 1944 the AAF had accepted only thirteen B-32s. Mechanical problems, delays, and com- plaints of faulty workmanship almost led to its cancellation in late 1944. In 1942 the National Advisory Committee for Aero- nautics (NACA) had predicted the bomber would fail, and many in the AAF agreed. As late as February 1945 the acting chief of the Air Staff, Brig. Gen. Patrick Timberlake, opined that the "B-32 in its present form is not an acceptable bomber."19 Meanwhile Gen. George Kenney of the Far East Air Forces came to the rescue. He had failed to get B-29s for his command in mid-1943 and in March 1945 volun- teered to combat test the B-32. No one else seemed to want Consolidated's bomber and Arnold asked his staff, "Why are we build- ing the B-32?"20 A few days later Arnold authorized combat service tests for the bomber, and by late May three B-32s were in place in the Philippines, where they flew twenty sorties on eleven missions, delivering 134 tons of bombs mostly against targets on Formosa. The detachment commander noted that the B-32 carried twice the bomb load of the B-24, fifty miles per hour faster, to a much greater range, and with about the same ground and aircrew. The bomber proved stable and rugged; however, sources differ on the issue of the aircraft's maintenance. Maj. Gen. Ennis Whitehead, commander of Fifth Air Force, thought the bomber could do the job and recommended that his unit get a group of B-32s. However, the official AAF history states that the test crews were "pessimistic regarding technical defects of the B-32's."21 Although the war was almost over, the test unit, now number- ing nine bombers, moved to Okinawa and conducted a couple of missions over the South China Sea. More dramatically the unit flew four reconnaissance sorties over Japan on August 17 and 18. On both days they were intercepted by Japanese fighters, the bomber gunners claiming one destroyed on the seventeenth and two on the eigh- teenth, the last American victor