ses of nuclear ballistic mis- sile submarines. hit separate targets at a range of 2,500 to 3,200 nm with a CEP of .25 nm. It was first deployed in March 1971. The thirty-one Lafayette-class boats were retrofitted with Poseidon missiles. The larger missiles required larger submarines, an effort added by President Richard Nixon's desire for leverage in deal- ing with the Soviets. In the early 1970s the Navy saw the possibility of fitting an ICBM aboard a nuclear submarine. The program, initially known as undersea long-range mis- sile system (ULMS), consisted of a Trident missile and a new submarine also named Trident (Ohio class). It was larger than the Lafayette class, measuring 560 feet in length and weighing 18,700 tons, compared with 425 feet and 8,300 tons, and could carry twenty-four larger missiles. However, unlike the remarkably rapid, efficient, and successful early history of the Navy's ballistic missile nuclear submarine (SSBN) program, the Trident submarine was beset with a slew of problems, delays, rising costs, litigation, and public criticism. The Navy launched the first of the class in April 1979 and deployed it on its first patrol in September 1982. Fortunately the Navy designed the missile to fit existing submarines as the Ohio class struggled toward service. The SLBM continued to grow and improve. Launch technology changed from a compressed air launch to the surface before rocket ignition to a steam system that could launch a bigger and heavier missile with increased payload and range. (The subma- rine had adequate volume to accommodate the larger missile.) The Poseidon C-3 had twice the payload and twice the accuracy of the Polaris missile. While it could carry six to fourteen warheads, on average it carried ten (MIRV, multiple independently targetable reentry vehicle), which could The manufacturer began development of the three-stage C-4 version in November 1971 and produced a weapon with a range of four thousand miles that could deliver eight 100