rnier company dominated the development of bomber aircraft in Germany. In March 1930 the four-engine Do P first took to the air, manufactured in the Dornier factory in Switzerland in response to a 1927 army requirement for a four-engine long-range bomber. It was tested, along with the Do 11 and Rohrbach Roland, at Lipetsk. The breakthrough aircraft, however, was the Do F, which made its maiden flight in May 1932. This twin-engine medium bomber incorporated such modern fea- tures as Townend engine cowlings, metal skin fuselage, and retractable landing gear, enabling it to reach a maximum speed  CHAPTER 3 GERMAN STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT corrugated metal fuselage. It was designed as a transport and only intended to be the interim bomber until the Do 11 became available. But the latter's problems, and the former's virtues (sterling flying character- istics, simplicity, ruggedness, and ease of manufacture), gave the Junkers craft a much greater role, so that at the beginning of 1936 it equipped two-thirds of the GAF's bomber force. The bomber version was armed with one 7.9-mm gun in an open top position and a second gun in a semiretractable "dust- bin" mounted just aft of the landing gear and between the aircraft's two bomb bays, which could accommodate a maximum of thirty-three hundred pounds of bombs. The bomber had a tactical radius of 310 miles at a cruising speed of 153 mph. of 155 mph. The Germans changed its designation to Do 11 in 1933, and along with the Ju 52/3m, the aircraft formed the core of the initial GAF bombing units. It suffered a number of design flaws, however, specifically, wing vibration, poor stability, and landing gear difficulties that forced it to operate with the landing gear locked in the extended position. One prominent aviation historian writes that the Do 11 "acquired so unenviable a reputation as a result of acci- dents stemming from both structural weak- nesses and execrable handling characteristics that it had been dubbed the Fliegender Sar