ons is wishful thinking as there was no time to assimilate these les- sons, for the successor unit was training and operating nearly in parallel with the XXth. For the XXIst Bomber Command was well into combat, flying its seventeenth mission (and ninth over Japan) before the older unit flew its twenty-fifth mission. In the end 139 and AWPD/42 and having commanded a bomb wing in the Eighth Air Force for half a year before going to Headquarters AAF in mid-1943. this Indo-Chinese effort got the B-29 into combat as quickly as possible, placated the president, who wanted to aid the Chinese, kept it under central (AAF) control, and trained LeMay in the particulars of the B-29 and the Pacific strategic air war. The B-29 bases on the Marianas were built on the three major islands: Guam, Saipan, and Tinian. Base construction was hindered by the tough and sustained Japanese resistance, poor weather, rough terrain, and differing naval priorities. The resulting facilities for the aircraft were less than planned and those for the personnel were primitive at first. There were Japanese stragglers in the jungle, but thirteen Japanese air attacks proved more serious, destroying eleven B-29s, damaging forty-nine others, and inflicting more than 240 casualties. When the JCS pushed up the date for the invasion of the Marianas, the AAF lead- ers, who recognized the limitations of the Chinese and Indian bases, revised the plan, which would send a second bomb wing to the XXth. The latter's limited results and drain on tight supplies in the theater were other factors in the January 1945 JCS order to move the unit in April to the Marianas. The 58th Bomb Wing began operations, under the XXIst Bomber Command, in early May. The AAF established the B-29 target list for the bombing of Japan based on the European experience. The aircraft industry was selected as the "overriding intermedi- ate objective," industry second, and shipping third. The planners recommended that the six largest cities not