ed borrowed IR sensors from the F-16 and mated them to laser designators. To diminish their RCS, they were mounted internally and protected from radar by wire mesh. The aperture proved a considerable problem until the designers could develop a transparent, low RCS window, which cre- ated the greatest impact of all the deficien- cies encountered in the test program. The USAF came up with specifications for two types of stealth aircraft, a single-seat attack bomber (ATA [advanced tacti- cal aircraft] "A") and a two-seat medium bomber (ATA "B"). Some in the Air Force pressed for the larger aircraft, but as the faceted design created size and weight problems when scaled up beyond the size of the ATA "A," the Air Force shelved the "B" version.5 In November 1978 the USAF awarded Lockheed a contract to build five test and twenty operational aircraft. The The aircraft made its initial flight in June 1981. Most would agree with the descrip- tion that even "its own mother would have a hard time calling the F-117A pretty."7 It truly is an absurd-looking flying machine; however, despite the perennial belief of avia- tors that "if it doesn't look good, it can't fly One of the major military aviation innovations of the late twentieth century was stealth technology, first fully applied to an operational aircraft in Lockheed's F-117. Considerably different in appearance than conventional aircraft, it had two valuable military capabilities: low radar detectability and the ability to deliver precision- guided munitions. (National Museum of the USAF)  STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT INTO THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY 284 CHAPTER 11 unit averaged about 150 man-hours of maintenance for every flying hour (MMH/ FH), compared with 32 for the F-15A/B, 22 for the F-15C/D, and 19 for the F-16. By 1989 MMH/FH had dropped to about 45. The unit was involved in shaking down the aircraft while developing combat tactics. Despite the public's perception of an invisible aircraft, the aircraft can be picked up by ra