built and flew a number of such designs, and in 1941 won a contract to build a bomber version. The XB-35 was designed to achieve a top speed of 380 mph, mount twenty .50-caliber guns, and reach a range of twenty-eight hundred miles with a maximum bomb load of fifty-one thousand pounds. Two piston engines turned four sets of counterrotating props in a pusher configuration. The futuristic aircraft, a giant with a 172-foot wing span, an empty weight of 90,000 pounds, and a maximum loaded weight of 209,000 pounds, made its first flight in June 1946. The disadvantages of aerial refueling are seldom noted but ever present. Negative aspects center on the reliability and vulner- ability of the tankers and the difficulties of the operation. Every tanker employed meant another aircraft to maintain and operate, and possibly malfunction. Use of tankers presents an opponent with addi- tional aerial and ground targets. It should be emphasized that aerial refueling is more complicated than gassing up the family car; it requires considerable skills as malfunc- tions and accidents can prevent refueling or damage or down the participating aircraft. In brief, while effective, aerial refueling is a complicated, expensive, and vulnerable way to extend range. The project was overcome by time and problems. The aircraft bomb bay was too small to carry the first atomic bombs internally, and a semiexternal carriage would decrease top speed by 7 percent and combat range, already considered inadequate, by 9 percent. Gear box and prop difficulties led the manufacturer to replace the counter- rotating arrangement with single-rotation props, a version that first flew in February 1948, although with considerable vibration, less stability, and decreased performance. Aerial refueling saw action during the Korean War. The first combat aerial refueling was in July 1951, when a tanker refueled (Right) Although Northrop won a contract to build the B-35 in 1941, the Flying Wing did not get airborne until