flying boom on the tanker that telescoped from twenty-seven to forty-five feet and was inserted into a receptacle on a bomber flying closely below and behind the tanker. This system could pump faster than the hose system and could operate at higher speeds and altitudes. Meanwhile the British went on to develop and demonstrate a probe and drogue scheme in April 1949. It involved a tanker extending a flexible hose with a basket (cone) at its end, into which the receiver inserted a short probe. The two systems had contrasting advantages and disadvantages. The boom system could pump faster (700 gpm versus 110 in the crossover system and 250 with the probe and drogue) and at a higher altitude. How- ever, it required the two aircraft to fly a tight formation and could only refuel one aircraft at a time. The probe and drogue system was lighter, cheaper, and simpler and could use similar aircraft to refuel each other ("buddy system") or could simultaneously refuel as many as three aircraft using three baskets. In a SAC flyoff between the two systems in February 1952, bomber pilots preferred the boom system while fighter pilots preferred the probe and drogue. SAC wanted the boom system while the Air Force's research and development arm, Air Research and Development Command, recommended standardizing on the probe and drogue sys- tem, which was approved by the undersec- retary of the Air Force. In the end SAC got the boom while USAF fighters went with SAC quickly demonstrated its new capabilities. In December 1948 a B-50 flew from Fort Worth to Hawaii, dropped its bombs, and returned to its base, covering ninety-nine hundred miles aided by three aerial refuelings. Even more impressive was an operation only a few months later. The USAF planned an around-the-world mission, using five B-50s to be launched in sequence until one completed the circuit. The first that took off, in February 1949, was forced by engine problems to land in the Azores. The second, Lucky Lady II, completed