iew in November 1943, writing, "We can wreck Berlin from end to end if the U.S.A.A.F. will come in on it. It will cost between us 400-500 aircraft. It will cost Germany the war."24 At this point he listed nineteen German cities as "virtually destroyed" and another nineteen as "seriously damaged." Bomber Command had destroyed almost twelve thousand acres of urban area, about one-quarter of what it had attacked in the thirty-nine cities. Harris stated that "there can be little doubt that the necessary condi- tions [to cause the enemy to capitulate] would be brought about by the destruction of between 40% and 50% of the principal German towns."25 Harris had high hopes, but these were to be dashed over German targets, and contrary to his assertion that Germany would be forced out of the war, it was Bomber Command that was defeated early in 1944. Another notable attack during this time frame took place on the night of 17 August 1943 against the German V-weapons research and testing facility at Peenemünde. This raid varied from the norm as it was intended to destroy specific buildings in the facility. One innovation during this attack was the use of a "master bomber," a commander who orbited the target and directed the assault, a tactic first used in the dams attack. The bombers also employed a new marker bomb for the first time, a "red spot fire," a 250-pound bomb that ignited at three thousand feet and continued to burn on the ground for ten minutes. The attack caused considerable damage. Window and diversions initially confused the defenders, but they were able to down forty bombers and damage another thirty-two in the full moonlight. Between the end of the Ruhr campaign (marked by the Hamburg bombing) and the beginning of the Battle of Berlin (Novem- ber 18, 1943), Bomber Command made thirty-three major thrusts against Germany. These attacks were distinguished from the earlier ones by the increased num- bers of bombers (from five hundred to six  CHAPTER 4 BRITISH STRA