e (some would saw doom) the project was to achieve Mach 1.2 at  US 226 CHAPTER 9 THE 1960S AND 1970S that was enough for the decision makers. In retrospect it appears that Boeing designed an aircraft for the Air Force, while GD designed one for the secretary of defense. Therefore it should come as no surprise that in Novem- ber 1963 McNamara announced that GD had won the Tactical Fighter Experimental (TFX) contract. new technologies would also be useful. Tur- bofan engines with afterburners promised high thrust with increased fuel efficiency. New materials such as titanium were lighter and stronger, albeit, more expensive than existing materials. Advances in avionics enabled improved navigation and bombing as well as increased range of detection of hostile threats. Clearly this aircraft would be on the cutting edge of technology. McNamara's four reversals of the military bothered some. More serious were allegations that the decision was politically inspired. GD needed the work and its Fort Worth facility was located in Texas, home to the vice president and a politically important state. There were also charges of illegal cam- paign contributions to the Kennedy forces, which prompted Senate hearings that found no decisive evidence of wrongdoing. In December 1961 six companies responded, with the proposals by Boeing and General Dynamics judged far above the rest. The military, with the Air Force as the lead service because it was getting the bulk of the buy, concluded that the Boeing design had a number of performance advantages and a lower cost, while the GD design was less daring and thus less risky and offered higher speed. In the final analysis, the most important advantage of the GD design was that its Air Force and Navy versions were 84 percent common by weight contrasted with Boeing's 34 percent. The military picked the Boeing design four times, and each time was rebuffed by their civilian superiors. It came down to the fact that the Air Force had more confiden