stly, and many were unsuccessful. Only a few merit attention as strategic strikes. The most famous Bomber Command low-level attack, probably the outstanding British operation of the war, 85 and among the stellar bombing attacks of all time, surely one of the best known, was the May 16, 1943, attack on the Mohne, Eder, and Sorpe dams. The official Bomber Command history calls it "the most precise bombing attack ever delivered and a feat of arms which has never been excelled."20 Prior to the war the British considered such an attack because these dams stored water vital for German production in the Ruhr and their destruction would seri- ously disrupt the German economy. Yet the plan had its detractors. Harris opposed the operation, seeing it as another example of "panacea-mongers" diverting his force to use an untried weapon against promising but unrealistic targets. Nevertheless Bomber Command selected its best crews, provided them with intensive training, invented a new weapon, and devised new tactics for this endeavor. for this mission that drew on the most experienced and skilled airmen in Bomber Command. The crews not only faced the normal hazards of low-level night flying over hostile territory but also encountered fog. The attack cost eight of the nineteen bombers and fifty-six men (fifty-three killed), but the results were outstanding. The assault breached the Mohne and Eder dams and damaged the Sorpe dam. The British knew prior to the attack that the Sorpe was more important than the Eder, but it also was more difficult to destroy for both tactical and technical reasons. The resulting devastation was considerable, killing thirteen hundred, damaging fifty bridges, and causing the loss of a week or more of production in the Ruhr, as well as draining off workers and materials to repair the damage and increase the defenses of the dam system. However, damage was limited to a small agrarian area for a brief time. It was too ambi- tious because the airmen lacked the