get and on thirteen hundred sorties scored sev- enteen hundred direct hits. Cruise missiles saw action for the first time in this war. The Navy launched 280 Tomahawks from a variety of platforms, and the Air Force employed 35 convention- ally armed GPS-guided AGM-86Cs from B-52s. Seven B-52s flew a thirty-five-hour, fourteen-thousand-mile round-trip mission to and from the United States to launch conventionally armed cruise missiles on the first night, the longest combat mission of all time. The coalition had overwhelming advan- tages relative to the Iraqis in terms of num- bers, technology, training, and plans. Thus On their part the outmatched Iraqis made a strategic effort with ballistic missiles Col. John Warden III, USAF (1943- ), developed an air power theory that formed the basis of the U.S. air attack plan in the 1991 Iraq War. His concept emphasized effects, not total destruction, simultaneous not sequential attack, and targeting of enemy leadership. These ideas continue to influence the Air Force. (Air University Press) US U.S. WARDEN 287  288 CHAPTER 11 STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT INTO THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY 289 PARES that had the potential to unravel the alliance by drawing the Israelis into the conflict and inflict terror and casualties on allied cities. The great fear was that the missiles would deliver chemicals since the Iraqis had previ- ously employed poison gas against both the Iranians and Iraqi Kurds. While unsuccessful, the Scud did occupy a disproportionate coalition air effort and was the one bright spot for the Iraqis, whose missileers proved innovative and effective in evading coalition countermeasures. 15 Their weapon was the obsolete Scud, an inaccurate, short-range Soviet missile, not much advanced from the One of the few Iraqi accomplishments in the 1991 Gulf War was their employment of the Scud missile. Although a short range and inaccurate missile, it represented a significant political and military threat as it was feared that it might b