y more flying training hours than the Germans. Oil shortages also drastically restricted the mobility of the German army, forcing German units to employ animal power to move equipment.35 By mid-1944 fuel shortages restricted combat operations. (During the December 1944 Ardennes offensive the Germans planned on capturing Allied fuel.) A further consequence of the diminishing German oil position was its detrimental impact on the chemical industry, crippling ammunition, fertilizer, and rubber production. For these reasons it has been argued that oil was of first importance in the defeat of Germany. An important note: One of the reasons for the successful oil campaign was excellent intelligence. Allied use of Ultra prompted the reattack of oil targets shortly after they were repaired, the only such effec- tive use of the broken code in the strategic air war. The bombing imposed heavy costs on Germany-not only the direct cost through the loss of production but also indirect costs as resources were siphoned off by the bombing. Air power destroyed or heavily damaged one-fifth of German dwelling units. The USSBS estimated that 3.5 mil- lion workers were engaged in rescue and clean up operations, reconstruction, and replacement of civilian goods. One-third of German heavy guns, one-fifth of heavy gun ammunition, half of electronics, and one- third of optics were employed in air defense. Two million workers were engaged in producing air defense weapons, and another one million manned this equipment. The Germans also committed great resources to build underground factories to shield their vital industries, an effort that in December 1944 required almost half of the labor force involved in industrial construction, resources diverted from building fortifications. Two other key target systems were transport and coal. Transportation was neces- sary to move coal, the chief power source throughout the country. The dispersion of German industry as a consequence of the bombing made tr