significant role in the war and have overcome the airman's major obstacle of accuracy, and thus have revolutionized air combat. Air- men made attempts with guided free-fall bombs during World War II and Korea with limited success. The breakthrough came in the 1960s with the invention of the laser, which was quickly and cheaply turned into an effective weapon. The laser-guided bomb (LGB) was combat tested in Vietnam, where it achieved phenomenal success. In 1969 LGBs scored direct hits on 61 percent of releases, and 85 percent of those bombs registered a CEP of ten feet, less than the lethal radius of the bomb. It should be noted that not only were LGBs much more accurate than conventional free-fall bombs, but the delivery altitude was considerably higher than conventional dive bombing, greatly reducing the attacker's vulnerability. The Gulf War of 1991 was provoked by the ambitions of Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, who aspired to dominate the  US 286 CHAPTER 11 there could be no question as to who would win the conflict, only a question of time and cost. The air armada deployed was greater than was needed and allowed the coalition to execute the first three phases of their plan (a strategic campaign; defeating the Iraqi air defenses; and weakening the Iraqi ground forces and isolating the Kuwaiti theater) simultaneously. (The fourth phase was aiding the actual coalition ground attack.) The LGBs proved very effective during the Linebacker I campaign in which 64 percent of drops scored direct hits and accounted for 22 percent of North Vietnamese tanks that were destroyed.12 In the Gulf War less than 10 percent of the tonnage dropped were PGMs, yet they caused over 75 percent of the damage. In addition to some radical, if not revo- lutionary technologies (satellites and PGMs introduced in Vietnam and now further developed, and stealth), a second major change was the USAF's new concept of strategic operations as conceived by a serv- ing Air Force officer, Col. John Ward