in the lectures given during the 1933-34 school year at the Tac School. As the airmen studied the U.S. economy for other clues to economic bottlenecks, they added finance, utilities, raw materials, oil, and the food sup- ply to the target list. In 1939 an Air Corps lecture listed electric generating plants in the United States and synthetic oil refineries in Germany as examples of bottleneck targets. accuracy. Hence the importance of the highly sophisticated and accurate Norden bombsight, which emerged in the 1930s. Because of the location of the United States and its potential enemies, range was one of the most difficult and obvious problems for the airmen. To overcome range limitations, they discussed technological developments such as air-to-air refueling and the use of foreign air bases. By the mid-1930s they had developed their own strategic bombing theory: Unescorted, heavily armed aircraft flying in formation could economically and accurately bomb and destroy industrial targets from high altitude in daylight and thus win wars. The key to this bombing doctrine was accuracy. The American emphasis on high-altitude and high-speed formations of heavily armed aircraft necessitated compro- mises in other performance. For example, as altitudes increased to lessen the impact of enemy antiaircraft artillery, bombing accuracy decreased. Other areas of compro- mise concerned bomb load and range. The airmen favored range and heavy defensive firepower at the expense of bomb load, which further increased the need for Combat Operations between the World Wars Conflicts continued in the years fol- lowing World War I, the "war to end all wars."The limited use of aviation in these fights was in stark contrast to the extraor- dinary pace of aircraft development of the period. One of the most important conflicts was the Russian civil war, which raged between 1917 and 1922, in which aviation played no significant role. Aircraft were sparsely employed, but certainly not strategic av