and B-50s saw action in reconnaissance roles. The Air Force did not want to risk either its small numbers of its best bombers or their secrets in this war. For the same reason the airmen restricted the use of elec- tronic countermeasures.22 The war did send up warning signals to the bomber enthusiasts. Just as the Soviets had developed nuclear weapons more quickly than expected, they sprang another surprise by fielding large numbers of an excellent defensive fighter, the jet-powered MiG-15, which first saw action in Novem- ber 1950. Although the Soviet fighter was defeated by American F-86s over MiG Alley, it proved successful in the role for which it was designed, killing American bombers. On April 12, 1951, the Air Force launched forty- six bombers, thirty-nine of which bombed the Yalu bridge at Sinuiju. The B-29s were hit by over seventy MiGs, which brushed off the F-86 and F-84 escorts, destroyed three bombers and damaged seven others. In the conflict the USAF employed some of its long-range strategic bombers, mainly B-29s, against interdiction targets. The four- engine bombers had little trouble against the meager North Korean Air Force, and by mid-September they had taken out what few industrial targets there were in North Korea. The only key target set remaining was electric power, which was not struck because this largest installation was on the for the Air Force-Navy dust up and as the largest U.S. bomber that went into service.20 One Navy aircraft should be mentioned, if only in passing. The North American AJ Savage was a hybrid aircraft powered by two prop and one jet engine that first flew in July 1948. Designed as a heavy attack  Mius s lock CHAPTER 7 174 THE POSTWAR ERA 175 In addition the joint Air Force, Navy, and Marine attack would hit three installations in central North Korea, to be followed that night by a B-29 attack on one of these. The bombers claimed seven MiGs destroyed and escorting F-86s another four, while the Communists insist they down