ly twenty thousand tons of bombs on sixty-three hundred sorties; the RAF deliv- ered just over half the tonnage, while the AAF contributed three-fifths of the sorties. Allied losses were high, 378 bombers and 42 fighters, although not as bad as feared, for the planners believed that as many as 200 bombers might be lost in one day. The Luftwaffe was hard hit by the battle. The AAF crews claimed 449 fighters destroyed in the air battle, while the Germans admit to the loss of 355 fighters. Regardless of the numbers, the change in GAF defensive tactics during the following weeks indicates the impact of Big Week: The Luftwaffe no longer rose to oppose every AAF raid. On the other hand, bomb damage (as usual) was overestimated. (Postwar investigation revealed that German single-engine fighter production in the first half of 1944 was twice Allied intelligence estimates and that the bombing destroyed less aircraft produc- tion than the July and October 1943 raids.) However, the bombing encouraged the Germans to disperse their aircraft industry, which decreased production not only during the move but also from the loss of efficiency from the dispersed smaller units and made Germany more dependent on its transportation system. The air war now took a decisive turn. Poor weather prevented an immediate follow up to Big Week. With the aim of providing air superiority for the upcoming 119 cross-Channel invasion, the airmen sought to lure the Luftwaffe into the air. One way adopted in March was to stop flying diversions and route the attacking bombers directly toward their targets. Another was to pick out targets the Germans had to defend, such as Berlin. Weather disrupted the Eighth's first major raid on Berlin on March 6 and protected the primary targets from all but 51 of the 658 attacking bombers, forcing the remainder to scatter their bomb load throughout the German capital. The defend- ers launched 460 fighter sorties, which accounted for the bulk of the sixty-nine bombers do