nflict quick, extensive punishment, instead they meted out various degrees of death, pain, damage, and suffering that was diluted by time and geography, which lessened its impact. And while authors continue to argue whether the bombing increased or decreased the morale of the populations, this is irrelevant, for under authoritarian regimes people complied and worked to survive and thus the economies and societies in Germany and Japan continued to function. The second tenet, which held that bomb- ing the key points of a nation's economy would achieve victory, also floundered in the war, though certainly not for lack of trying. Poor choice of targets, duds, inad- equate accuracy, poor weather, ineffective bomb damage assessment that overestimated damage and delayed or excluded restrikes, and tough defenses that made bombing expensive and frequently impractical were all factors. In addition enemy economies proved flexible and resilient. The result was that these attacks hindered the war effort but were not decisive. However, the closing shots of the war, the nuclear attacks in August 1945, seemed to portend a different future. 32 The experience since World War II has not vindicated strategic bombardment. The wars that erupted after 1945 that involved the superpowers have been limited, hamper- ing strategic bombing and helping render these operations indecisive. Despite marked advances in equipment and considerable investment and effort, strategic bombing has been unable to force a decision. Although technical obstacles have been largely overcome, strategic bombardment remains shackled by political restraints and intel- ligence inadequacies. In fact these handicaps appear greater today as modern commu- nications make every bomb blast instantly known throughout the world and as governments and populations have become much more sensitive to the use of military force and especially to civilian casualties. Since World War II a number of factors have altered strategic bombin