67 the Soviets opted for the Tupolev aircraft. Despite its similar designation, the Tu-22M "Backfire" was entirely different from the Tu-22. The bomber went into service in the mid-1970s. The Russians fielded an improved version of the Backfire (M2) with different armament and avionics in 1978. A year earlier the M3 model first flew and introduced significant changes: more powerful and more fuel efficient engines, new air intakes, a single two-barreled tail gun, and the ability to sweep the wings to a fifth setting, back another 5 degrees. These improvements increased speed from about 830 knots to over 1,220 knots, extended range by one-third and doubled combat load. The Backfire C version went into operations in 1983. When the Soviet Union dissolved the air force had 210 Backfires in service and the navy 160, and by the end of the century, at least 125 and 45, respectively. The Backfire saw combat in both Afghani- stan and Chechnya. The Tu-22M has not been sold abroad despite interest expressed by a number of countries. The Tu-22M Backfire first flew in August 1969. It reverted to the traditional Soviet engine arrangement, two engines buried in the wing roots, but did offer a novel feature, variable geometry (swing) wings. (Unlike its American counterpart, the F-111, the Soviet bomber's wing could only be locked in four positions, between 20 and 60 degrees.) The pilots were seated side by side, with the other two crew- members positioned abreast behind them. Tupolev mounted a four-barreled single gun in the tail. While the Backfire was bet- ter regarded than the Blinder, it also had its woes. Engines had a short life, the ECM system caused problems, and the aircraft had difficulties with vibrations, leaky hydraulics, and flying low-level missions. The biggest issue, however, was political, regarding the aircraft's range. Although American intel- ligence sources were divided, some thought the bomber was capable of intercontinental missions, a significant issue as th