aving the lowest RAF heavy bomber loss rate, its large bomb load, and its ability to carry the heaviest bombs employed in the war. (National Museum of the USAF) The Lancaster story begins in 1936, when the standard RAF night bomber was the twin-engine biplane Heyford and there was but one squadron of monoplane bombers (Hendons) in Bomber Command. That year the air service drew up specifica- tions for a four-engine heavy bomber and a twin-engine medium bomber to be larger than the Wellington, which at this point was considered a heavy bomber. A. V. Roe proposed a design that was powered by two "new and unorthodox" liquid-cooled engines, which first flew in July 1939 and was named the Manchester. It entered com- bat in February 1941 and proved a distinct failure due to engine reliability and power problems, poor handling at heavy weights, and inadequate armament. It was vulner- able, on average surviving but seventeen operations, compared with twenty-seven operations in the aircraft it replaced (Hamp- den), and compiling the highest loss rate of all Bomber Command bombers in the war. As a result the RAF removed it from combat service in June 1942. To remedy the bomber's problems, Avro installed four engines on the basic airframe. The Lancaster made its maiden flight in January 1941 and successful flight tests led to an immediate production decision. It was fitted with four power turrets (nose, tail, dorsal, and ventral), all mounting twin .303-caliber machine guns except the tail position with four .303s. (The ventral turret was soon removed.) The aircraft was built for production underscored by the deci- sion to use a fixed rear wheel instead of the more complicated, expensive, and less drag producing retractable one. One of the outstanding characteristics of the Lancaster was its large bomb lift capacity and ability to carry giant bombs, including the heavi- est employed in World War II, the 11-ton "Grand Slam." Unlike most combat aircraft built in large numbers, th