id of any out- side power. They may have sent more than eight hundred, and perhaps as many as one thousand, aircraft to the Chinese, but they had no significant impact on the war. More significant to air power were the battles waged between the Soviets and Japanese. In the summer of 1938 there was a border clash between the two at Lake Khasan and the next year at Khaklhin- Gol (Nomonhan). In the latter there was extensive aerial combat with over one hundred aircraft battling each other on numerous occasions. Both sides employed heavy bombers, the Japanese the Italian built B.R. 20s and the Soviets their tried and true TB-3s. There were, however, no strate- gic targets in the war zone so these were employed in other roles. The Russians made significant gains on the ground, but there is considerable controversy about the air battle with each side claiming a major victory. The Russians clearly did better against the Japanese in China than they had against the Germans in Spain. However, their next action a few months later was a severe jolt to Soviet pride and competence. defenses of Leningrad but were rebuffed. Consequently the Soviet initiated the conflict in November 1939 that lasted into March 1940. During the "Winter War" the Soviets employed overwhelming numbers and superior equipment, which the Finns met with courage, skill, and determina- tion. The Finns initially fielded about 145 aircraft against about 900 Soviet aircraft, and during the course of the conflict the former received another 200 aircraft and the latter increased their strength to 1,500 to 2,500. Despite their numerical inferiority and hodgepodge of mainly obsolete aircraft, the Finns inflicted heavy and embarrassing losses on the Soviets, downing 600 to 900 aircraft for the loss of 60 to 70. Although the majority of the air action was in sup- port of the ground battle, Soviet aircraft did bomb rear areas and Finnish cities with little success and considerable problems. The Finns also launched a nu