osed with the enemy. A second factor was bases. A number of potential basing areas were considered. Weather and logistics weighed heavily against the Aleutians, while Soviet nonco- operation ruled out Siberia. The only other options were to either use China or seize territories within range of Japan. In either case these bases would have to be built, unlike the situation in Europe, where most of the American bombers moved into exist- ing airfields that already had the necessary infrastructure. Then the airmen would have to supply and support the most sophisti- cated aircraft of World War II at the end of a supply chain that literally would extend half way around the world. At the Quebec conference in August 1943, the airmen proposed basing twenty B-29 groups on airfields to be built in China and supported from India by four thousand converted B-24 transports. But a review of the plan found that there would not be adequate transport available to support such an enterprise until Germany was defeated. At about this time Gen. Joseph Stilwell, commander of the American theater in the area, came up with a less ambitious plan that would ease some of these logistical concerns. It would move the bombers to permanent bases near Calcutta and stage them out of B-29 Planning and Problems The strategic bombing campaign against Japan faced many hurdles. The first was that of geography. Whereas the distance between the British bases and Berlin was about six hundred miles, the distances in the Pacific 135 advanced bases in China. Another idea that surfaced in September 1943 was to move up the planned invasion of the Marianas from early 1946 to mid-1944 and use it as a stag- ing base for B-29s stationed in the Marshall and Caroline islands. Such a scheme would allow bombing of Japan by March 1945 This was packaged with the idea of also using Aleutian and Siberian bomber bases along with fighter escort bases in the Bon- ins. In December 1943 the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) approv