standing feature of the tactic was that visual observation was not involved. Raid and postraid photographs indicated that of the 422 aircraft dispatched, 153 bombers released their bombs within three miles of the aiming point, an accuracy never before achieved. The British lost fourteen aircraft and laid waste to 160 acres and demolished or damaged three-quarters of an additional 450 acres. Clearly this was a successful attack that revealed the bombers' power and a fore- shadowing of what would follow. The most memorable operation during this time frame took place outside the Ruhr and was one of the most destructive attacks of the air war. One factor in the Brit- ish success was the introduction of a new electronics countermeasure, Window, which interfered with German radar. This was significant because the British estimated that by March 1943, 70 percent of their bomber losses were to night fighters and two-thirds of the remainder to radar-directed guns. After withholding Window from action for sixteen months, the British, facing mounting bomber losses (along with the declining GAF bomber force), revised their policy, believing they would reduce losses by one- third. Window would have its combat debut against Hamburg. Hamburg was Germany's second largest city with a population of almost two mil- lion and a major industrial center where one-third of Germany's submarines were constructed. It was located about fifty miles from the North Sea, bisected by the Elbe River, and thus an excellent, if not ideal, radar return, which compensated for the fact it was outside of Oboe range. In addi- tion it required only a short penetration of German air space. Bomber Command launched a force of 791 bombers (347 Lancasters) on the night of July 24, 1943, led by radar equipped aircraft that not only marked the route and target but also radioed their calculation of the winds to the main force. While 728 of the crews claimed to have released their bomb loads within three miles of th