of strategic bombing at the Air Corps Tactical School. The Tac School occupied this central posi- tion because it was the airmen's highest educational establishment and was where most of the United States' top air leaders of World War II served as either instructors or students during the interwar years. William What were his ideas? It is clear that Mitchell did not contribute new concepts. He was familiar with Douhet and went along with the major thrust of his ideas, although Mitchell was less extreme than the Italian. His thinking evolved over the years from first emphasizing control of the air and (Right) William "Billy" Mitchell (1879-1936) is best known for bombing tests that sank battleships, his 1935 court-martial (seen here), and as a strident promoter of an independent air arm. Mitchell was a prolific writer who advocated an air force built around bombers and the attack of "vital centers." (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) Sherman, one of the instructors at the school, set out the thinking of the American airmen in a book based on his lectures at the school. He noted approvingly that Marshal Ferdinard Foch, the top French general of World War I, saw "the possibility of bringing such pressure to bear on civilian populations as to end war through the action of the air force alone."28 Sherman wrote that aircraft were purely an offensive weapon and that a vigorous offensive was the best defense. Reflecting on the lessons of the air war, he 39 observed that while night bombing was done in comparative safety, day bombing, despite tight formations and improved gun- nery, required escort. He observed that anti- aircraft guns were ineffective and nothing more than a drain on resources. As for the bombing of civilians, he held that "among peoples in whom the spirit of sport has been strongly inculcated [Western Europeans and former British colonials?], it is peculiarly abhorrent to contemplate the waging of war on unarmed civilians of all ages and sexes."29  CHAPT