an six months experience. While Luftwaffe defenses declined, they still were able to inflict stinging losses on the American bombers. In April there were five missions on which the Eighth lost more than thirty bombers. On the eleventh the bombers attacked fighter factories in central and eastern Germany and in Poland, dropping over two thousand tons of bombs with the loss of sixty-four bombers, the internment of nine, and the junking of five. The mission of April 29 was even worse, in that fewer bombers took essentially the same losses: sixty-three missing, one interned, and two scrapped. Four missions in May saw more than thirty lost, the highest on the twelfth, with forty-six missing and nine written off on an attack on oil targets. On that day the GAF reacted with a strong force of 515 sorties against the 886 bombers and By the end of March it was evident that the AAF owned the skies over Germany. In the first quarter of the year the Germans lost more than twelve hundred fighter pilots on all fronts, about half of the GAF fighter pilot strength during that period. Allied losses were high, but they could endure the attrition; the GAF could not. Beginning in  CHAPTER 5 U.S. STRATEGIC BOMBING IN EUROPE 950 escorting fighters, resulting in bomber claims of 115 fighters and escort claims of 66 in the air, while German records indicate the loss of 60 fighters in the air. Strategic Operations to War's End After the first quarter of 1944 strategic operations took second priority to support of the cross-Channel invasion and the cam- paign against the German V-weapons. The AAF flew strategic missions when support of the troops was not essential, allowing the AAF to target oil (on visual missions) and the RAF to hit cities. Flak became more significant as German fighter resistance was minimal, with only occasional pitched battles. German fighter defenses proved sparse in October with no claims by the bomber gunners between October 8 and November 1, a month notable for the o