tern commentators write that the Topol-M and its sibling, the Bulava, will form the core of the Russian strategic mis- sile force in the future. ten warheads out to fifty-four hundred nau- tical miles. It was deployed in 1984 and five years later rearmed with an improved version with increased accuracy. Although the Rus- sians built six of these subs, at this point only one is in service, testing a new (SS-NX-30) ballistic missile. The Russians laid the keel of Borei-class SSBN in November 1996. It is about half the size of the Typhoon yet was to be armed with twenty R-39Ms (SS-N-28 Bark) missiles. Financial problems and a redesign necessitated by repeated failures of the mis- sile created extraordinary problems delaying the boat's launch until April 2007. Two other boats of the class are, or were, under construction. It is now designed to carry twelve or sixteen (depending on the public source) SS-NX-30 Bulava missiles with a range of fifty-four hundred nautical miles. This missile is a lighter and more sophisti- cated version of the land-based, three-stage, solid-propellant SS-27 (Topol-M), although In June 2000 the Russians claimed to be operating five Typhoon-, seven Delta IV-, and thirteen Delta III-class submarines. However, it is believed that not all of these are seaworthy. The Russian navy, as with the rest of the Russian military, is facing very difficult problems of finances and manning. The press reports that the Russians have The Soviets built the Typhoon, the largest submarine in the world, which can carry twenty ballistic missiles. Although six were built, only one is in service. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) The Chinese test fired this CSS-NX-3 from a Golf-class submarine. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) set a goal of twelve SSBNs for the period through 2010. Other Nations China is thus far the last nation to have deployed ICBMs. The DF-3 program began in November 1961 before technical and economic factors forced its cancellation in 1963.