nst the Germans, meant lower combat losses. On its first twenty-five missions the unit encoun- tered 2,200 fighters, but only 11 percent were able to attack in a coordinated manner. The Japanese downed 11 B-29s with can- non and machines guns, 2 with air-to-air bombs, and 5 in midair collisions. (The airmen concluded that at least 2 of the latter were intentional.) In exchange the gunners claimed the destruction of 130 fighters. Arnold fired the XXth Bomber Com- mand leader, Kenneth Wolfe, after less than a month of combat operations. The always impatient AAF commander was intoler- ant of anything but results, and the unique command arrangement that gave control to Washington led to micromanagement.12 It can be argued that Wolfe was unfairly treated in view of the conditions in China and India and the problems with both the LeMay arrived at his new post at the end of August 1944, when the XXth Bomber Command had flown seven missions, only one of which had achieved decent results despite high casualties, twenty-nine B-29s lost, more than 8 percent of those that had bombed the primary target. LeMay, probably the best American World War II bomber leader, could not make the XXth a success. He did instill enthusiasm, push training, and change formations, but most of all, he gained the respect and confidence of his men. One officer described LeMay as "a tough, hard- working, no-nonsense general who said relatively little, but got big results. .. . He was a hard, but fair Commander and he fought for his men."13 The unit's operations from China and India were costly, with twenty-nine B-29s lost to enemy action, fifty-one others on operations, and another forty-five lost to noncombat causes. And the claim that these early missions helped the development of the later B-29 operations is wishful thinking as there was no time to assimilate these les- sons, for the successor unit was training and operating nearly in parallel with the XXth. For the XXIst Bomber Command was well in