d mines in areas distant from Japan, mostly using aircraft. The XXth Bomber Command had a minor role in these operations, dispatching 176 bomb- ers that seeded almost one thousand mines on their primary targets without a loss. The situation around the home islands was even more critical for the Japanese because of their limited rail system, and here the B-29s dominated the mining operations. The Navy requested help from the AAF, requests the airmen initially resisted as a diversion from strategic bombing. But the AAF found itself in a sticky situation, for if it did not cooper- ate with the Navy, it might lose the mission and aircraft. Although the XXIst was neither trained nor equipped for such operations, it quickly adapted, beginning night, low-level, radar-aimed, mine-seeding missions at the end of March. The Shimonoseki Strait was the primary target because it was a bottle- neck with twice the density of traffic of any other point in Japan. The airmen achieved great success measured in the tons of ship- ping sunk and in delays of traffic. Meanwhile, during April, when it was not bombing airfields, the Twentieth Air Force adopted a policy of launching daylight precision attacks from medium or low altitudes when the weather was good, and when not, radar-guided attacks on urban areas. On April 7, 1945, the AAF encoun- tered brisk Japanese fighter resistance when two daylight thrusts against aircraft factories in Tokyo and Nagoya provoked 764 fighter attacks that claimed 6 B-29s destroyed and 151 damaged. (The bomber gunners claimed the destruction of 101 Japanese fighters.) This marked the first Superfort mission escorted by fighters, which posted twenty-one victories at the cost of two friendly fighters. By mid-April the XXIst Bomber Com- mand had built up its incendiary stocks and thus was able to continue fire bomb- ing Japanese cities. Three strikes in April burned out twenty-two more square miles of Japanese cities and in May the B-29s fire bombed cities five