trategic bombing (the Pathfinder Force) as well as targeting precision targets that he derisively labeled "panacea targets."What he provided for more than three years was firm leadership that overcame obstacles presented by the Germans, weather, geography, and, on occasion in his view, his superiors. Although some would describe him as cold blooded, his men saw him as a forceful, ruthless, single-minded leader. What set Harris apart from his contemporaries was his willingness to make tough decisions with unshakable determination. In addition, Harris illustrates the rewards of being at the right place at the right time (as we shall see with Curtis LeMay's experience with the B-29); he came to Bomber Command after his prede- cessors had been unable to accomplish very much and just as numerous factors were coming together to increase the effectiveness of British bombing. Harris assumed command of Bomber Command in late February 1942. He had orders issued just nine days earlier to rain incendiaries on cities to break German morale. Harris found a small force to carry out this task: 374 aircraft available with crews, only 44 of which were heavy bomb- ers. The force grew, and a year later the overall strength was 593 bombers of all types with 363 heavy bombers, most of which were the new and best British bomber of the war, the Lancaster.7 Bomber Command also incorporated new equipment and tac- tics during this time period. To be clear Harris neither conceived the policy of city bombing nor did he play a 73 Arthur "Bomber" Harris (1892-1984) assumed leadership of RAF's Bomber Command in February 1942. Although not the creator of night area bombing, he became its superb practitioner. His wartime position and the controversy surrounding the bombing of Germany led to him being snubbed after the war as a symbol of the immorality of strategic bombardment. (Air Historical Branch [RAF] Ministry of Defense)  CHAPTER 4 BRITISH STRATEGIC BOMBING Navigational Devices The RAF encounte