ht Tactics To bolster their fighter numbers the Ger- mans increased fighter production and redeployed units to homeland defense. These measures increased single-engine fighters in the West from 500 in January 1943 to 810 in July and 964 in October 1943. Beginning in March 1943 twin-engine fighters joined the day battle, providing greater numbers, heavier firepower, and longer endurance than single-engine fighters. While American crews reported contact with over 100 GAF fighters on one mission in March and one in April, they observed that number three times in May and four times in June. In late July the Luftwaffe was getting over 200 fighters up to oppose the AAF bombers, with 225-275 observed on July 30, 1943. The heavily armed American bombers flying in formations at high altitude pre- sented a different and more difficult prob- lem to the defenders than the British heavy bombers that flew alone at lower altitudes at  CHAPTER 5 U.S. STRATEGIC BOMBING IN EUROPE night. The tightly flown American forma- tions unleashed a hail of gunfire that could deter, disrupt, and destroy attacking fighters. In addition AAF bombers proved more rug- ged than British bombers, as it took an aver- age of twenty to twenty-five 20-mm hits to down a B-17. The German response was to increase cannon armament and employ air-to-air rockets to attack from behind and outside the range of the bombers' .50s (eight hundred to one thousand yards). One of the rockets could down a bomber and a barrage could disrupt a bomber formation.11 In con- trast German air-to-air bombing, first used in February 1943, proved ineffective. The Luftwaffe also organized its fighters under centralized control to mass them against the American formations. In the second quarter of 1943 they began to equip airfields in Western Europe to rapidly rearm and refuel shifting aircraft to allow multiple sorties. The Germans learned by November 1942 that head-on attacks were the most effective tactic against the AAF bombers, es