s. This Peacekeeper launch in 1987 from a modified Minuteman silo reveals the installation's heavy hexagonal door. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) the MX deployment at fifty until the administration developed a more survivable concept. In April 1989 President Reagan decided to limit the MX program to fifty missiles and transfer the existing missiles onto rails, a plan cancelled by President George H. W. Bush in 1991.20 Arms-control agreements, along with maintainability issues, led to the first Peacekeeper being deactivated in October 2002 and the last in September 2005. leveled off at 1,054, the Soviets continued to build, and by 1970 they surpassed the American numbers, fielding 1,300 ICBMs. Warhead numbers rose greatly due to the development of multiple warheads. The MX's most serious problem proved to be its basing. The increasing accuracy of Soviet missiles posed the threat that a first strike ("bolt from the blue") might take out U.S. nuclear forces. While mobility com- plicated the attackers plans, it brought with it problems of expense, accuracy, security, and reaction time. In addition there was the issue of"not in my back yard" domestic politics. The planners considered forty or so options, including protection by an anti- ballistic-missile system, superhardening, deep underground basing, airborne launch, buried trench, multiple protective shelters (MPSs), closely spaced basing (dense pack), railroad basing, off-road truck basing, sea basing, and basing them in the existing Minuteman III silos. President Jimmy Carter picked the MPS option (September 1979),18 which President Reagan cancelled in October 1981 and replaced in November 1982 with dense pack. This option was more attractive politi- cally as it required less land despite ques- tions about it effectiveness19 and although Congress favored buried trench or shelter basing. Therefore the president appointed a government group (the Scowcroft Com- mission) to study the matter, which in April 1983 re