stic missile program, and beginning work on a third Air Force ICBM (Minuteman). The first Atlas B flew full range in November 1958, over a year after the Sovi- ets accomplished that feat. The USAF got its first Atlas ("D") operational in late 1959, although it lacked reliability and was vulner- able because it was stored above ground and had to be erected to a vertical position then fueled (requiring about fifteen minutes) for an above-ground launch. Later the "D" and "E" models were stored horizontally in a coffin-like structure and erected to the vertical position for fueling and launch, while the last Atlas version ("F") was stored in a silo, fueled, and brought above ground  246 CHAPTER 10 MISSILES 247 longer, 50 percent heavier, and with 40 percent more power in the first stage and 25 percent more in the second. This gave the Titan II a range of nine thousand miles compared with the sixty-three hundred miles of the Titan I, permitting the Air Force to base it farther south than the Titan I. It also featured all inertial guidance that allowed the USAF to disperse the missile silos at least seven miles from each other, increasing an attacker's targeting problem. The Martin missile achieved a CEP of .5 to .8 nm. However, the most important change was the use of a storable fuel. The early liquid-fueled missiles were difficult to handle, had to be fueled immediately before flight, and were dangerous.8 The storable fuel was easier and safer to handle and allowed the missile to remain fueled, which cut reaction time. Titan II could be fired directly out of its silo in one minute compared with fifteen minutes required by Titan I. It carried a 9-megaton warhead (compared with 4 megatons on the Titan I), the most powerful deployed on an American missile. The Air Force launched the first Titan II in March 1962 and, unlike so many other missiles, got it right the first time with a flawless five-thousand-mile flight. It achieved operational status in March 1963, and fifty-f