incorporate jet engines into an experimental bomber and encouraged a number of manufacturers to submit preliminary designs. The American airmen were pushing turboprops for heavy bombers, and in April 1945 they requested a design study from Boeing. The Seattle com- pany declined, responding that the desired characteristics were "completely out of line with the state of the art."1 The first American jet-powered bomber was a modification of the Douglas XB-42 Mixmaster, a small pusher-prop bomber already discussed (see chapter 7). In Janu- ary 1944 the AAF signed a contract with Douglas to substitute jet engines in two XB-42s to be redesignated XB-43. The AAF proposed in December 1944 to buy fifty of the aircraft to explore the capabilities of jet bombers, provide a test bed for the jet engine, establish an industrial production base, and educate the AAF in maintenance, flight, and combat operations, despite the fact that the performance estimates fell short of AAF bomber requirements. However, the rapid development of competing jet bomb- ers, delays (caused mainly by the engine The first U.S. jet bomber was a conversion of the Douglas XB-42. After first adding two jet engines underwing (XB-42A), the USAF substituted two jet engines for the piston engines in the XB-43 version seen here. However, the bomber could not carry the five- ton atomic bomb and was outperformed by the rival B-45. (National Museum of the USAF) 181 manufacturers), and the failure to meet military requirements limited procurement to two experimental bombers. eye canopies and problems with pressuriza- tion. Most important, the aircraft could not accommodate the 5-ton atomic bomb and was overtaken by other jet bombers. The two bombers differed in appear- ance. Douglas retained the prop engines and added two jets under the wing of one of the XB-42, an aircraft redesignated XB-42A. The jets caused problems yet could push the plane to a top speed of 488 mph. It would seem easier to add two externally mou