ds it certainly could be. The airships were underpowered when all engines were running at peak performance and certainly had problems when any failed or were not producing full power. horns from a phonograph player attached to a pivoting pole and connected to a doctor's stethoscope. At least some of these devices were manned by blind individuals with acute hearing. Later the defenders built at least four concrete sound reflectors, fifteen feet in diameter, that could detect aircraft at a range of six to eight miles and perhaps as far as twelve to fifteen miles. Sound detec- tion (and tracking) was the best available technology of the day, although it was short ranged, fickle, and unreliable. There were also the enemy air defenses. The airships were large and slow and relatively easy to spot in clear weather. They lacked a speed advantage over aircraft, although initially they could climb faster and higher than the defending fighters. The zep- pelin's slow speed and large size gave antiair- craft artillery gunners, as well as infantrymen and machine gunners, a much easier target than aircraft, and the use of hydrogen made the airships vulnerable. Of the fifty-three or so naval airships lost during the war, at least ten were downed by fighters and eight by ground fire. Some of the other losses may have resulted from damage suffered from either or both of these agents, but clearly weather and mechanical problems were a major cause of losses. Initially British fighters lacked adequate armament to down the airships. The defend- ers used bombs and darts, but these required the fighter to get above the zeppelin, brave defensive fire, and accurately release the missiles, not an easy task. Grapnels and ram- ming were considered, while flare pistols and grenade launchers proved useless. The standard British .303-caliber machine-gun ammunition proved ineffective, leading to the invention of incendiary bullets that could ignite the hydrogen. These went into action in the summer