was interested in the concept of  CHAPTER 3 GERMAN STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT 51 and the shameless sellout of Czechoslo- vakia that September. The threat of war, particularly the fear of bombing of cities, bolstered by Hitler's rhetoric and backed by the Luftwaffe, paved the way for Germany's bloodless aggression. most significant, did not assert that air power alone could win a war. In early 1933 Robert Knauss, the leading German air theorist of the day, advanced a more detailed and daring scheme. He concurred with two tenants of American strategic bombardment doctrine that fighter escort was unnecessary because bombers could protect themselves and that modern nations could be "crippled" by a few selec- tive attacks on electric power, transport, and fuel. But he also echoed Douhet by advocat- ing attacks on enemy air forces, mobilization centers, and terror bombing of major cities. While there were some German officers who objected to Knauss's ideas, these views were well received by German airmen. That same year Wever ordered the for- mation of an air doctrine that was drawn up in 1935 as Luftwaffe Regulation 16: The Conduct of the Aerial War. It stressed air power's offensive nature and that the primary mission was to break the will of the enemy's armed forces. The document called for supporting both the other services and independent operations, emphasizing that the first and most important mission was to destroy the enemy's air force. However, the core of air operations was to hit the sources of military power, production, food, power, transportation, and administration. The German airmen rejected Douhet's aim of terrorizing enemy civilians on moral and military grounds, although retaliation was another matter. This document also denied the need for fighter escort. Clearly the Germans gave strategic bombing consider- able thought and were thinking in terms of attacking the enemy's industrial base. They were influenced by Douhet, although with reservations. In the wo