loaded 78,000 tons on Britain and the Soviets some 6,700 tons on mainly Finnish and Hungarian cities.) Americans and British losses were high. The Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces lost eighty-seven hundred (downed, missing, and written off) bombers, forty-two hundred (downed, missing, and written off) fighters, and suffered seventy-three thousand casual- ties; Bomber Command lost ninety-two  CHAPTER 5 Chapter 6 Razing Japan THE ZENITH OF WORLD WAR II STRATEGIC BOMBING the GAF from attacking friendly forces. But as Noble Frankland, one of the premier historians of Bomber Command, makes clear, there was no revolution in warfare. In contrast to the air power theorists, World War II was attritional warfare extended to the skies. One air power historian concludes his treatment of this subject by writing that strategic bombing "vindicated the treasure expended on it. If in the final analysis it accomplished its ends more by brute force than by elegant precision, the fault lay in the unrealistic assumptions of prewar doctrine as to wartime accuracy, the vagaries of Euro- pean weather, and the limitations of radar technology."37 Strategic bombing made a major yet expensive contribution to the Allied victory in Europe. It also was to have a major impact on the Pacific war. NO SME WITHIN n many respects the bombing of Japan was in sharp contrast to the American bombing of Germany. It began later in the war, was of a shorter duration, and employed the most advanced bomber of the conflict. The Pacific campaign was waged over much great distances, mostly over water, and encountered even greater weather problems than those found in Europe. On the other hand Japanese defenses proved weaker than the German's, and thus most of the American bomber losses were not caused by the defenders. These differences led to tactics that varied from the prewar American strategic bombing theory and those initially employed over Europe. It ended with the use of the atomic bomb, what appeared to be t