anks replaced the existing ones. The "E" model also mounted two air-to-surface missiles (ASMs), Hound Dogs, on pylons between the fuselage and inboard engines. growing defenses, SAC added additional ECM as well as standoff and decoy missiles. The last two models in the B-52 series were somewhat different. The "G" had a wet wing (integral fuel tanks in place of bladder tanks) that cut almost three tons of weight and increased internal fuel, and although Boeing replaced the 3,000-gallon external tanks with 700-gallon tanks, fuel capacity increased from 41,600 gallons to 48,000 gallons and range increased. Spoilers replaced ailerons. Most visibly the vertical stabilizer was shortened eight feet from the (almost) triangular form to a cut down configuration and the tail gunner moved forward to join the rest of the crew.23 The latter change saved one ton, and the other structural changes saved another six tons. Most of the "G" models were fitted to carry two Hound Dogs as well as two Quail decoy missiles. In the early 1980s the "G" was also modified to employ the air- launched cruise missiles. (The Hound Dog and Quail are discussed in chapter 9). The Air Force modified the B-52 fleet with new electronics, for both offensive and defensive purposes. These included an electro-optical viewing system (EVS) for low-level flying (combining infrared and low-light TV sensors to allow flying as low as 250 feet above the ground), which was very useful and effective, and various ECM devices. In the 1980s Boeing installed the offensive avionics system (OAS) on the "G" and "H" bombers, an expensive program ($1.7 billion) that updated and integrated the aircraft's avionics. Both the "G" and "H" were modified to employ both short-range attack missiles (SRAMs) and air-launched cruise missiles (ALCMs) (see chapter 10). The last in the B-52 line was the "H," which featured turbofan engines and a new defensive fire-control system. The engines increased power 30 percent yet reduced fuel consu