aircraft employed were upgraded versions of World War I aircraft, albeit with better performance. While the bulk of the Spanish air force remained loyal to the government, German and Italian aid gave the rebels the edge in the air. Then beginning in October 1936 the Soviets weighed in on the side of the government, sending not just numbers of aircraft and personnel but also two of the most modern aircraft of the day, the I-16 monoplane fighter, which was far superior to the German and Italian biplane fight- ers, and the twin-engine SB monoplane bomber, which could easily outrun the Nationalist fighters. This shifted the air bal- ance back to the government. The Germans responded with the best they could produce Almost all of the aerial operations sup- ported the ground troops. The National- ists did bomb Republican ports, as well as the major cities of Madrid in 1936, killing an estimated one thousand civilians, and Barcelona in 1938, killing about thirteen hundred. In all perhaps twenty-five thou- sand civilians of the more than four hundred thousand killed in the war fell to bombing. However, the most memorable attack of the war, and for that matter, perhaps of all time, was the April 1937 bombing of Guernica. Two dozen German bombers, mostly Ju 52s, dropped forty-five tons of high explosives and incendiaries followed by He 51s, which strafed the survivors. Most accounts put the death count at sixteen hundred, but because this event was highly publicized as an example of Nationalist (and especially German) ruthlessness, highlighted by Pablo Picasso's vivid painting, this figure may well be inflated; regardless, the attack and the casualty toll are controversial. Some of the lessons drawn from the Spanish Civil War relate to strategic bomb- ing, although little such bombing was con- ducted there. Observers noted that bombing accuracy was poor but that Germans did better than their allies and foes. This may have resulted from the superior National- ist (specifically