d pounds of rocket bottles for the entire flight. But as with so many other aspects of the bomber, the new device brought new problems. If Tests of the B-47B between August 1951 and April 1952 demonstrated that the bomber did not meet SAC requirements and revealed unsatisfactory handling during approach and landing, wing heaviness at high speeds to the point where full aileron use was required, and the necessity for close control of the center of gravity. The testers recommended a speed brake, improve- ment of the J 47 engine acceleration, and increased aileron effectiveness. Other prob- lems emerged. The canopy was considered The Boeing B-47 was the United States' first operational strategic jet bomber. Although range limited and a handful to fly, it was fast for its day and reached a peak inventory of 1,560 in 1956, the most of any U.S. jet bomber. The B-47E was the ultimate model and, as shown here, Boeing substituted a jettisonable "horse collar" arrangement for the internally mounted rocket takeoff assist bottles. (National Museum of the USAF) 187 the bottles were dropped at speeds exceed- ing two hundred knots they hit the fuselage, and if all thirty-three bottles were fired simultaneously, their exhaust damaged the skin on the rear fuselage. Boeing also added a sixteen-foot-diameter approach chute and a thirty-two-foot-diameter braking chute. The first increased drag by one-quarter and allowed the pilot to carry more power on his final approach and thus ameliorated the problem of slow engine acceleration in the event of an abortive approach, while the sec- ond decreased landing roll 40 to 50 percent. The Air Force decided to upgrade most of the "B" fleet to this standard in April 1953, with the first renovated bomber delivered in March 1954. in 1957, the same year the Soviet SA-2 SAM became operational, and developed maneuvers for nuclear delivery. The more spectacular was the low-altitude bomb system (LABS), which caused both accidents and fatigue cracks. In