offensive operations and com- batants must absorb the bombing attacks and endure losses to inflict more damage. Therefore the airmen should concentrate on independent (read: strategic) opera- tions, not auxiliary tasks such as support of armies and navies. (In 1926 he went further, writing that "auxiliary aviation is worthless, superfluous, harmful.") The first task in an air war was to defeat the enemy's air force, which should be attacked not only in the air but also on its bases and in its factories. He opined that the new weapon should be organized into a coequal and independent military branch. Douhet also asserted that bombers were not intended for air-to-air combat, that defensive armament was only The Command of the Air appeared in print in 1921, although it was not published in English until 1942. Earlier Douhet materi- als were published outside of Italy, in both Britain and France in 1933 and Germany in 1935. However, Douhet had the great- est and earliest influence in the United British, German, and American Doctrine World War I promised that airplanes would be useful in future wars, a lesson acknowl- edged by most and doubted by few. The If land warfare has its Carl von Clause- witz and sea warfare its Alfred Thayer Mahan, air warfare theory is dominated by  CHAPTER 2 THE INTERWAR YEARS great impact bombing would have in the future. Some of his assumptions and conclu- sions proved in error because the new tech- nology had not yet matured, and perhaps because he was not a flyer. Nevertheless he set the agenda. His direct influence remains in dispute and may well have been limited, but he was frequently mentioned by aviators throughout the world and used to bolster their equally far-reaching ideas. Certainly his core ideas on bombing's decisiveness, morale as the critical target, and air power's offensive nature were believed by many during the interwar years, and for that mat- ter since then. And while World War II did not confirm Douhet's ideas, and may