eaty (SALT I) agreement did not limit cruise missiles as it did other nuclear delivery systems. In  256 CHAPTER 10 November 1972 the Navy opted for a mis- sile launched from existing torpedo tubes, which, like the short-range air-launched missile (SRAM) rotary launcher's constraints on the ALCM, limited the SLCM in size and weight. SALT energized both cruise missile programs as decision makers saw them as bargaining chips in the arms talks. The DoD ordered the two services to cooperate, especially share the key equip- ment, the Navy's TER COM and the Air Force's turbofan engine and high-energy fuel. Boeing made minor modifications to its SCAD, renamed it AGM-86A, and began flight tests in March 1976. Although there was a belief that the SLCM, the Navy's General Dynamics (GD) Tomahawk, was two years behind the ALCM, it had support in Congress and in the DoD because of Air Force reluctance to develop the ALCM, indicated by its priority behind the B-1 bomber and MX ballistic missile. Moreover the specter of a naval missile on an Air Force aircraft, "having a torpedo rammed up its bomb bay," spurred the USAF to action, an example of how civilians exploit interservice rivalry. The SLCM first flew only two weeks after the Air Force missile, had a much more successful testing program, and swept on by the AGM-86A.14 The question arose as to whether to select one of the two cruise missiles, which would be the Tomahawk, or develop both. The Navy gained an advantage when the DoD established a joint program office in 1977 under Navy leader- ship. Its mandate was to stress commonality, concentrate on long-range (fifteen hundred nautical miles) versions, and develop a ground-launched cruise missile (GLCM) from the Tomahawk for USAF theater use. USAF ALCM SAF O MOTY AVISO ' (Top left) The invention of a small turbofan jet engine and a new and accurate navigation system combined to produce a very accurate, long-range, subsonic missile. The first air- launched cruise missile, the AG