Yet the results of World War I bombing were overestimated: The physical impact of the strategic bombing was minimal, and while the bombing on occasion shook civil- ian morale, its impact tended to diminish over time. A third aspect is that strategic bombing in World War I was hampered by small forces further reduced by low in commission rates, restricted by the limited capabilities of bombers and zeppelins, and limited by bad weather. The small numbers of airships and airplanes that made it to the target areas delivered small bomb loads, and not very accurately. In addition losses were high, mostly due to accidents. In view of the crude equipment and very limited training, it is remarkable that losses were not higher. The most significant influence of World War I strategic bombing was to divert resources from other operations and, in the long run, the impression it left on the minds of the airmen and the civilian decision makers. The air war in general and the strategic bombing campaign in particular demonstrated more promise than performance. Certainly the strategic effort was spectacular and dramatic, but in truth it had minimal effectiveness and influence on World War I. The Interwar Years BOMBERS, DOCTRINE, AND COMBAT n the 1920s and 1930s aviation made rapid strides. These were the golden years for aviation, as new aircraft, flashy barn- stormers, record-breaking flights, and seem- ingly endless promises for the future dazzled the press and the public. In these two decades new technology appeared that not only changed the appearance of aircraft but also greatly improved aircraft performance.1 In military aviation bombers were the first to take advantage of new technological developments so that between the late 1920s until the mid-1930s they achieved at least performance parity with fighter aircraft. The U.S. Superiority in Bomber Aviation America emerged from World War I with a large air force, albeit one that flew foreign- designed and -manufactured aircraft.