surface missile with a range of 175 to 500 miles at 600 mph. Martin won a study contract in March 1946. The project survived several cutbacks that eliminated other programs and received top priority in September 1950. The missile was about the same size and appearance as contemporary fighters (albeit without a cockpit), sporting swept wings and a horizontal tail mounted atop the verti- cal stabilizer. The turbojet-powered craft employed a boosted launch after which it could carry a 1.5-ton warhead over 650 mph to a range of 620 miles. It initially was controlled by ground-based radar, a mismatch because the radar was limited to a 250-mile range, well short of the missile's maximum range. Therefore in late 1954 the Air Force installed the Shanicle guidance system, which transmitted signals to the missile, allowing it to navigate along grid lines. Tests of the TM-61C indicated an overall reliability of 71 percent and a CEP of twenty-seven hundred feet (instructors achieved a CEP of sixteen hundred feet). Because Shanicle was limited in range and could be jammed, the Air Force fitted a third guidance system, automatic terrain recognition and navigation (ATRAN), a radar map reading system, into the TM-61B. Named Mace, the missile's fuselage, wing, engine, booster, and weight differed from the "A" and "C" models and produced bet- ter performance. The USAF deployed both Matador and Mace to Europe and the Far East between 1959 and 1969. Throughout their service the two missiles demonstrated reliability and accuracy problems, as well as control difficulties over long distances. Ballistic Missiles The first American intercontinental ballistic missile was the Convair Atlas. The liquid-fueled missile had early difficulties, steadily improved, and was operational between 1958 and 1965. (USAF) In contrast to the disappointing and dif- ficult experience with these postwar cruise missiles, ballistic missiles were much more successful. U.S. forces brought scores of V-2s stateside a