at the Allies were working on a similar program. This was untrue, so just as the Allies pursued an essentially nonexistent nuclear program, the Germans chased a nonexistent missile program. For the crashed rocket was a V-2 testing radio-controlled equipment for the Was- serfall, a surface-to-air missile, leading the Allies to believe that the V-2 would be radio controlled. In July 1944 the British airlifted out drawings and 110 pounds of wreckage from a test shot that had crashed in Poland in May. Thus, with the exception of radio control, the British formed a fairly accurate estimate of the missile's basic characteris- tics and performance before the first V-2 impacted in Britain. on the technological cutting edge, required a number of breakthroughs, and suffered numerous failures and setbacks along the way. Overall, it is estimated that the Germans expended three thousand V-2s in their experiments, testing, and training, one- quarter of which failed.26 By the summer of 1943 the Germans had begun training operational units at Peenemünde. the SS on the grounds that he was sabotag- ing the program and was more interested in space travel than developing a military weapon. (This of course would help the German mitigate his wartime connections when he came to the United States after the war to work in the U.S. Army rocket program.) There were also shortages of steel and liquid oxygen, trained personnel, and labor. And although Hitler approved the program for production in November 1942, it was not until summer 1943 that the V-2 received a top priority. At this point Hitler was enamored by the project and wanted a rocket with a 10-ton warhead The V-2 was a large (46 feet long and 5.4 feet in diameter) missile fitted with four fins on its aft end and weighing 13.6 tons at liftoff with its 1-ton warhead. It required thirty-two vehicles and trailers and four to six hours to ready the device for firing (an hour and a half according to another source) and about half an hour t