t the Do 11 "acquired so unenviable a reputation as a result of acci- dents stemming from both structural weak- nesses and execrable handling characteristics that it had been dubbed the Fliegender Sarg (Flying Coffin) by crews unfortunate enough to fly it."1 Dornier modified the aircraft, which it redesignated Do 13. It was a simplified design that used flaps and fixed landing gear, along with more powerful engines, but it was no better, and perhaps worse than the original. Therefore Dornier stopped production and made further modifications. The improved version was redesignated Do 23 and began to supplant the Do 11 in the summer of 1935. The GAF received over 200 of the Do 23s, along with 150 Do 11s and 12 Do 13s. These Dornier bombers were disappointing at best, certainly slow, sluggish, and dangerous. Therefore they were quickly phased out of front-line service into training and support duties. 49 Other aircraft in the GAF's early inven- tory also served as both bombers and trans- ports. Early in 1934 the Germans issued a requirement to the Junkers and Heinkel companies for an aircraft that could be fit- ted as either a fast transport or a bomber to replace the Do 23 and Ju 52, which resulted in the He 111, Do 17, and Ju 86. The first two were successful, the last was not. One last medium bomber deserves mention before returning to our focus. The Ju 88 first flew in December 1936, and one of the prototypes reached an astonishing speed of 323 mph. The aircraft entered service only shortly before the outbreak of the European war and because of its performance and adaptable design became the mainstay of the GAF bomber force, with almost fifteen thousand built. In contrast the Junkers aircraft had a long and distinguished career. The Junkers Ju 52 is best remembered as a transport Tante Ju (Auntie Ju), the German counterpart to the classic Douglas DC-3/C-47 "Gooney Bird."2 The Ju 52/3m made its maiden flight in April 1931 and was distinguished by its three engines, f