nt at Leuna, the largest synthetic oil plant of its kind in Germany and important in produc- ing chemicals. Understandably it was also the best protected plant, with heavy flak guns increasing from sixty-five or so prior to the first AAF bombing attack in May 1944 to ten times that number by November. The Germans also effectively deployed smoke and fighters that, along with the weather, greatly hindered accuracy during the twenty AAF and three RAF attacks. The Eighth got 29 percent of its bombs within the target area (1.2 square miles) on five visual attacks, 12 percent on three attacks using radar and visual methods, and 5 percent on the remaining attacks using only radar. 29 The defenders enacted a high toll, 128 AAF bombers. Postwar investigation of oil targets 121 revealed that only a small proportion of the bombs created damage. Overall, 84 percent of the Allies' bombs dropped on oil targets impacted outside the factory area, another 3 percent hit decoys, 7 percent fell in open areas, 2 percent were duds,30 and a mere 3.5 percent hit production areas or pipelines. The American airmen erred in using bombs that were too light and were nullified by blast walls, whereas the heavier RAF bombs caused much greater damage. Aiming points were also poor, but with the miserable accu- racy this was of little import. Nevertheless, Leuna production tumbled and during the bombing amounted to only one-tenth of its preattack capacity. (as few as thirty bombers), and against a large number of dispersed targets. Almost half of the fourteen hundred effective sorties hit the primary targets, and 96 of the 124 squadrons bombing used visual aiming and got almost three-fifths of their bombs within one thousand feet of the aiming points, twice the percentage within five hundred feet as compared with the rest of the winter bombing. Despite these more vulnerable tactics, the Eighth's losses were low: seven bombers and thirteen fighters lost and one fighter junked. Clarion continued the n