e hundred feet or less) led to bomber modifications, including changes to both the bombing-navigation system and the Doppler radar, strengthening the airframe, and adding terrain clearance radar and low-altitude altimeters. Most of these modifications were completed by October 1963. To further combat the At the roll out of the initial produc- tion B-52A in March 1954, the chief of staff of the Air Force, Gen. Nathan Twining, remarked that just as "the long rifle was the great weapon of its day ... today this B-52 is the long rifle of the air age."20 Boeing built only three "A" models. SAC received its first B-52B in June 1955, a heavier aircraft propelled by more powerful engines with the first unit becoming operational in March 1956. The new bomber suffered a multitude of difficulties, most of all from a deficient bombing and fire-control systems. These were some of consequences of SAC push- ing so hard for early deliveries of the new bomber over the objections of the develop- ers, who wanted more time to work out the problems. Despite all of its warts, the "B" did have its moments of glory. In January 1957 three B-52Bs led by Lucky Lady III cut the time of the first nonstop around the world The USAF received a total of 744 B-52s. During the two decades after 1966, and before the arrival of the B-1Bs, the B-52s dominated SAC, accounting for more than 80 percent of its bomber inventory during this period. In 1994 the "G" models were retired, reducing the B-52 inventory to ninety-five "H" models. Presently the USAF plans to retain the B-52 into midcentury. The Boeing bomber served not only as a major deterrent in the Cold War but also in combat, notably the Vietnam War and the Gulf War. Along with the acquisition of the B-52, SAC received another valuable addition, the long-lived Boeing KC-135 Stratotanker. It took an unlikely track toward success. In a 1954 design competition it had ranked third; however, the advanced stage of the Boeing prototype promised an earlie