red in 1942, the RAF used twin- engine medium bombers and two other aircraft, the four-engine Stirling and Halifax. The Short Stirling is remembered at best as  CHAPTER 4 BRITISH STRATEGIC BOMBING 00 The Short Stirling heavy bomber was designed with a one-hundred-foot wing span to accommodate RAF hangar doors, a bomb bay limiting the size of bombs, and a fuselage sized to carry standard cargo crates. The compromised result led to a disappointing aircraft with limited performance. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) 79 a stop-gap bomber and, in the understate- ment of the official history, "a disappoint- ment." It came to life from a July 1936 specification that generated proposals from eight companies of which Supermarine and Short were awarded developmental con- tracts. From the start the Short design was compromised in a number of ways. First, its wing span was limited to less than one hundred feet to allow it to fit through RAF hangar doors. This resulted in a low-aspect- ratio wing, which gave it unusual maneuver- ability for a bomber but seriously restricted its ceiling. Second, the bomb bay design precluded the carriage of bombs larger than 2,000 pounds. Third, the bomber featured a midwing configuration that necessitated a long landing gear. This arrangement tended to cause swings on takeoffs that created safety problems. Finally, the fuselage was sized to accommodate standard packing crates. Understandably the resulting aircraft left much to be desired. heavy bombers were flying at twenty thou- sand feet. By mid-1943 the Stirling was only attacking less defended targets, and it flew its last mission with Bomber Command in September 1944. The British built just under twenty-four hundred Stirlings. Bomber Command's second heavy bomber, the Handley Page Halifax, was more successful. It began as a two-engine design; however, questions as to the availabil- ity of the Rolls Royce Vulture engine led to the use of four Rolls Royce Merlin engines. The bomber made it