s, and effect, although it was based on an entirely different technology. For in contrast to the cheap, simple, winged V-1, the V-2 (designated A-4 by the Germans) was a ballistic missile that was much larger, more complicated, and more expensive, with heretofore unprecedented performance. The Treaty ofVersailles restricted the German military in many ways but not in the field of rocketry. In 1929 the German army decided to begin rocket research that by mid-1936 encouraged the army to build an experimental facility at Peenemünde, where both V-weapons would be developed and tested. Although there were some efforts in the field of rocketry by Americans and Soviets, the Germans had the lead by the end of the decade. The Germans drew up specifications for a missile that came to be known as the V-2 to carry a 1-ton warhead over 160 miles (twice the range of the longest range artillery piece fired thus far, the infamous Paris gun of World War I) with a CEP of .3 to .45 miles. The rocket had to be transportable and able to move through European railroad tunnels and small villages. The first static test took place in March 1940, and the first attempted launch in June 1942 failed, but on the third try in October, the missile flew 120 miles. This project was  CHAPTER 3 GERMAN STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT 65 Compared to the V-1 the rocket-powered V-2 ballistic missile was more costly, inflicted lighter damage, and produced less psychological impact. However, in contrast to the V-1, once launched the V-2 could not be stopped. The V-1 delivered 7 percent of the total German tonnage rained on Britain and the V-2 just over 1 percent. (San Diego Air and Space Museum) and a production rate of two thousand per month, both entirely out of the question. One argument used to advance the V-2 was that the Allies were working on a similar program. This was untrue, so just as the Allies pursued an essentially nonexistent nuclear program, the Germans chased a nonexistent missile program. For the cr