ng with the threat that the airship maker might sell airships to Britain, forced the German navy to order their first machine in April 1912, which initially flew that October.  caps lock ER THE EARLY YEARS THROUGH WORLD WAR I of bombs and killing seven. The first Battle of Britain had begun. The Germans began to train crews, carry out long-range flights, and conduct maneuvers with warships. Then the program was stunned in September 1913 when the first navy zeppelin was lost to bad weather. Although previously three airships had been destroyed by high winds or fire, this was the first in which there were fatalities. Just over a month later a second airship caught fire and was destroyed, killing, as in the prior incident, all but one of the crew. The twin disasters almost wiped out the navy's expe- rienced airship personnel. At the outbreak of the war, the navy had one airship and the army six, and in short order the military took over three civilian machines. The airships encountered major naviga- tional difficulties during these operations. Map reading and celestial navigation required adequate visibility, which was a problem in the European winter. Dead reckoning was also problematic due to the primitive state of weather forecasting, especially for the Germans, who lacked reporting stations to the west, the source of the prevailing weather.2 Beginning in April 1915 the Germans employed radio aids to permit navigation in all weather conditions. The airship crew transmitted radio signals to ground stations that used triangulation to determine the craft's position and radioed that information back to the crew. This system encountered problems with the radio transmissions and allowed the British to plot the airship's position. In 1918 the Germans fielded a system that used transmissions from two ground stations to allow an airship's crew to ascertain its position. Despite great expectations the airships' combat record was disappointing. Dur- ing the opening months of t