mpletely enclosed cabin with an open position in the nose for one crewmember who could function as aircraft commander, bombardier, or forward gunner. The Giant had a span of 138 feet, mounted as many as seven machine guns (although usually three), and generally was manned by a crew of seven. The Giant's crews, unlike those in the Gothas, were equipped with parachutes and a radio. The craft could exceed eighty miles per hour and car- ried just over two tons of bombs. At least eleven of the eighteen bombers built were destroyed in the war, although only one clearly fell to enemy action. buildings. The raids had an adverse impact on the war effort; for example, the produc- tion of the great arsenal at Woolwich for one period fell to 60 percent of capacity. To inflict this damage the Germans paid a considerable price. On December 5, 1917, British antiaircraft guns got two Gothas of sixteen that made it to England, and in all, six were destroyed on this raid. The bomb- ers caused little damage; in fact, of eighteen casualties in London, eight resulted from antiaircraft shell fragments. By the end of the year the British had increased their defenses to include 224 fighters, although one-third were obsolete types. They flew aerial patrols at night above the balloon aprons that by this time had been raised to ten thousand feet. The Brit- ish also increased antiaircraft gun defenses, deploying 150 fixed guns around London, another 100 in other areas, and a number of mobile units. Three R.XIV aircraft followed the R.VI model. They had the earlier five-engine arrangement, with one tractor prop in the nose and a tractor and pusher arrangement in each nacelle, and they reverted to an open cockpit configuration. The aircraft was heavier than its predecessors and thus had slightly less performance. The R.XIV saw service on the western front, with one shot down by a night-flying Sopwith Camel near the front lines. The largest attack on London came on May 19, 1918. The Germans thrus