nce was minimal, with only occasional pitched battles. German fighter defenses proved sparse in October with no claims by the bomber gunners between October 8 and November 1, a month notable for the onset of poor bombing weather. When the GAF came up to fight, it suffered disproportion- ate losses. On November 2 the Germans launched some 500 fighters, of which 36 were claimed by the bombers and 134 by AAF fighters. German records indicate the loss of 133 aircraft on this day; in exchange 40 AAF bombers went down (16 attributed to fighters) along with 13 fighters (4 more were junked). A giant fighter battle erupted on November 27, when the Germans misread a fighter sweep for a heavy bomber attack and launched 600 to 750 fighters, the most that challenged an AAF mission during the war. The 460 AAF fighter pilots claimed 98 victories while suffering the loss of 11 fighters and 2 scrapped. Although the Eighth was sending out over one thousand bombers on missions, only three times during the month did it suffer more than thirty losses. The Germans launched the surprise Ardennes offensive (the Battle of the Bulge) in mid-December under the cover of poor weather as a shield against Allied air power in mid-December. For weeks thereafter Allied air forces supported the ground forces. The Eighth Air Force flew its largest mission of the war on December 24, 1944, when the unit dispatched an astounding 2,046 bombers and 853 fighters, and of these, 1,884 bombers dropped over five thousand tons of bombs. The cost was 12 bombers downed and 23 written off along with, respectively, 10 and 2 fighters. The bombers claimed 18 and the fighters 74 enemy aircraft destroyed. In the closing months of the war, oil became the AAF's target of choice. The most important of these targets was the plant at Leuna, the largest synthetic oil plant of its kind in Germany and important in produc- ing chemicals. Understandably it was also the best protected plant, with heavy flak guns increasing from si