ong-lived Boeing KC-135 Stratotanker. It took an unlikely track toward success. In a 1954 design competition it had ranked third; however, the advanced stage of the Boeing prototype promised an earlier delivery date compared with the paper planes of the  194 CHAPTER 8 BETWEEN KOREA AND VIETNAM winner and the runner up and thus earned a procurement order as an interim tanker. It was developed in parallel with the Boe- ing commercial jet transport, yet despite its appearance, the KC-135 shared less than 22 percent commonality of tooling and manu- facturing with the 707 commercial trans- ports. It made its first flight in August 1956 and in June 1957 became operational with SAC.The Stratotanker had higher perfor- mance than the prop-powered KC-97 and closer to that of SAC's jet-powered bomb- ers. The KC-135 was especially important because it had four times the offload capac- ity of the KC-97s and the B-52B required twice the fuel of the B-47 for a full load. Boeing built 732 tanker versions along with others that served in transport, reconnais- sance, and command and control roles. The number of SAC tankers peaked in 1961 at almost eleven hundred (three-fifths KC-97s and the remainder KC-135s). Supersonic Strategic Bomber The Convair B-58 Hustler's career is strik- ingly different from that of the B-52.This was a remarkable aircraft, a radical design in comparison to the B-36 or the B-52. Despite its high performance it was not an effective military weapon because it brought little but expense and woes to the operators. The original concept was especially daring: a two-seat delta-wing bomber powered by three engines, one of which was to be jet- tisoned along with a fuel/weapon's pod at the target. Another unique feature was that the aircraft was to be carried, launched, and Convair's delta-wing B-58 was the first American supersonic bomber. One unique feature was its jettisonable, underslung pod, which carried both the weapon and part of the fuel. While a technologica