damage and killed only six. Gun camera film (lower right) shows the destruction of a balloon by a P-38. (National Museum of the USAF) western Pacific, Japanese actions against North America were pitiful. The Japanese did occupy a few islands in the Aleutians for a number of months, shelled U.S. West Coast targets (without physical effect) from submarines on three occasions, launched two flying boat sorties that ineffectively bombed Hawaii in March 1942, and twice in September 1942 launched a floatplane 151 (from a submarine) that unsuccessfully attempted to start forest fires in Oregon. However, their largest long-range effort underscores the differences in capabilities and effect between the two combatants: B-29s versus paper balloons. As early as 1933 the Japanese considered using the prevailing winds to send bomb- armed balloons against the United States. They developed balloons to be launched from submarines and tested two hundred of these during 1943-44. But it was a larger, hydrogen-filled balloon that would use the jet stream at thirty thousand to thirty- eight thousand feet to cross the Pacific Ocean with twenty-five to seventy pounds of antipersonnel and incendiary bombs  CHAPTER 6 RAZING JAPAN that saw service. The Japanese planned to launch fifteen thousand of these devices and actually launched ninety-three hundred beginning in November 1944, just as the Superforts were beginning their bombing campaign from the Marianas, a mismatch similar to that of the Pacific war. About one thousand reached North America, landing from Alaska to northern Mexico and as far east as Michigan. Censorship prevented the Japanese from learning of the fate of their weapons. They inflicted minor damage (two small brush fires and a temporary electric power loss at the Hanford, Washington, atomic plant, that delayed the atomic bomb) and few casualties (one woman and five children killed in Oregon). The contrast with the AAF bombing campaign is striking. Summary The American airme