r the Soviet SA-2 SAM became operational, and developed maneuvers for nuclear delivery. The more spectacular was the low-altitude bomb system (LABS), which caused both accidents and fatigue cracks. In response the Air Force initiated Operation Milk Bottle, May 1958 to June 1959, which inspected and repaired the bomber wing attachment to allow these maneuvers and devised a less stressful deliv- ery tactic. Boeing delivered the last B-47E in 1957, the year the USAF began to phase out the Stratojet as the B-52 came on line. In all the USAF accepted 2,041 B-47s. More than one thousand served in the oper- ational inventory between 1954 and 1962, the last leaving SAC in December 1967. None bombed, but several penetrated Com- munist air space on reconnaissance missions and some were fired on.ยบ One pilot summed up the B-47 by noting that although the bomber was "often admired, respected, The Air Force put additional demands on the bomber when the threat of surface- to-air missiles forced the USAF to adopt low-level bombing tactics. The command first publicly demonstrated the new tactics  188 CHAPTER 8 BETWEEN KOREA AND VIETNAM -*= NAVY 189 cursed, or even feared, [it] was almost never loved."10 Others insisted the bomber was "a pleasure" and "a lovely aircraft to fly."11 It did serve long and reasonably well in the transi- tion between prop-powered U.S. bombers and the venerable B-52. Despite its problems, by 1954 the B-47 had the lowest accident rate of any Air Force jet, and over its lifetime its major accident rate was lower than any of the U.S. prop bombers.12 The sleek jet was built in greater numbers than any other stra- tegic jet bomber and served as the backbone of SAC for a number of years. Striking Force (SSF), which would supple- ment aircraft carriers, using a striking force of large seaplanes supported by transport seaplanes, surface ships, and submarines and defended by fighter seaplanes. Its propo- nents claimed it would be cheaper and more flexible than land