e Normandy invasion. The cost was high as on its first operation, one He 177 unit lost half of twenty-six bombers committed and the next day another six. In short order, the bombers were directed to sow mines that were somewhat more effec- tive-sinking nine warships and seventeen others by the end of the month-and less costly. At this point the Luftwaffe redeployed the surviving antishipping units from the battle to bases in Germany and Norway. By the summer of 1944 the Allied bombing offensive had quickly reduced the amount of aviation fuel available to the GAF. To conserve what they had, the Luftwaffe grounded the He 177s and literally parked the bombers out in the open. Of 3,100 built, probably only 200 saw service. The GAF was not short of aircraft, it was short of trained crews and fuel. The major action of the bombers was now on the eastern front. In contrast to the German operations against Britain and the Anglo-American bombing of Germany, there was essentially no strategic bombing in the Russo-German war. The December Reportedly the He 177 was an easy aircraft to fly and as maneuverable as the  CHAPTER 3 GERMAN STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT smaller Ju 88, although, unlike its foreign rivals, it was difficult to takeoff and land. The main version produced, the 565 A-5, had a maximum speed of 303 mph and with two Hs 293 missiles was able to fly thirty-four hundred miles. It was manned by a crew of six and defended by numerous machine guns and cannon mounted in six positions. One writer contrasts the German heavy bomber with the Avro Lancaster and the Boeing B-17 commenting that the He 177 "was over-complex, unforgiving of mishandling and vulnerable to battle dam- age. Soon after its maiden flight, it gained notoriety as a killer of its crews, and it never shed that image."20 The Germans did better with strategic missiles; at least this effort cost fewer German lives. The V-1 (Buzz Bomb) Campaign The German strategic bomber effort was much smaller and much less effect