ed by the coinci- dental rapid advances in aviation technology after a decade of relative stagnation. Thus the Luftwaffe was not burdened with a large inventory of obsolete aircraft in the wake of the rapidly changing aviation technology. T The Treaty of Versailles prohibited Germany from maintaining the key weapons that emerged from World War I: poison gas, submarines, tanks, and military aircraft. The treaty also forced the Germans to disband their air force and turn over aircraft to the Allies. Although slowed, German ambitions and skills along with the negligence and apathy of the Western democracies allowed the Germans to end the 1930s with the strongest air force in the world. The revival of the Luftwaffe took three paths: manu- facturing, commercial air, and the secret development of a military air force. The Rebirth of the German Air Force The first to break the bonds on German aviation was the manufacturing sector. By early 1920 it was exporting aircraft, although the Germans were initially hobbled by restrictions on the performance of commer- cial aircraft, the numbers manufactured, and the size of the work force. Nevertheless Ger- man firms built aircraft at home and abroad. In short order the German aviation industry was competitive with its European rivals in terms of production and technology, with the notable exception of aircraft engines. Germany had even greater success with civil aviation. The Germans pushed com- mercial aviation, along with flying and gliding clubs, to encourage aviation and by the mid-1920s Germany was the most air-minded nation in Europe. In 1926, when the last fetters on commercial aviation were lifted, the Germans formed the national airline Lufthansa, which enjoyed both a monopoly within Germany and govern- ment subsidies. It emerged as the best- equipped and -operated airline in Europe and was soon known as well for its extensive overseas activities. As the decade ended The reemergence of the German air force (GAF) took a lo