l, aggressive Goliath. Further, it is now clear that until the 1968 Tet Offensive the war was an unconventional conflict fought by South Vietnamese (Vietcong) guerrillas requiring minimal help from the North. Fervent Viet- namese nationalism, fierce pride, and a strict authoritarian state bolstered the Vietnamese will to fight despite heavy losses, disruption, and destruction. tactics, and training. Aircraft designed for a short nuclear war proved unsatisfactory in a long conventional one. The B-52 was the only Air Force aircraft at the beginning of the conflict with true day-night, all- weather capability, but it would not be used over North Vietnam in force until 1972. Unguided bombs lacked sufficient accuracy and precision-guided munitions did not go into action until late in the war. Nuclear delivery tactics proved unsatisfactory in the air war over North Vietnam. ECM for fighters was inadequate and marginal for the B-52s. The American airmen also must share responsibility for the failure of the bombing campaign in terms of aircraft, equipment, A final factor that undermined the bombing campaign was the lack of strate- gic targets in North Vietnam. Even if the bombing of Germany's and Japan's econ- omy was decisive in World War II, a dubi- ous and certainly debatable assertion, the Vietnam conflict was decidedly not a total war between equivalent industrial countries. The Korean and Vietnam Wars indicated how air power could be thwarted by a Third World country, with a simple agrarian economy, a high tolerance for casualties, abundant manpower, tight authoritarian control, and outside supply. Because of a fear of Chinese and Soviet intervention, political repercussions, and morality, some key targets were not hit: Vietnamese ports were not blockaded until 1972 and dikes and people were not deliberately attacked. When the bombing stopped in mid- 1968, America had been defeated. While the indigenous insurgency in the South had been beaten, increased numbers of Nor