ubmarine's advantage greatly increased with the advent of nuclear energy, which gave essentially unlimited range and underwater endurance to the submerged launch platforms. The Navy's problem was to surmount problems involved in mating two cutting-edge technologies, nuclear-powered submarines The two missiles had comparable perfor- mance. Both had a range of fifteen hundred miles, carried the same 1.4-megaton warhead, and were erected vertically, fueled, and then fired, a procedure that took about fifteen minutes. There were differences,  250 CHAPTER 10 MISSILES 251 carriers, and cruisers in 1955. The last ver- sion of the device carried a 3.8-megaton warhead, almost six hundred miles at Mach 87. The Navy bought 514 of the missiles, which it kept in service until August 1964. A follow on missile, the Rigel, was planned but encountered "insoluble prob- lems" and was cancelled in August 1953. Thus the Regulus II, another Chance Vought product, was slated to succeed its namesake. This project began in June 1953 and first flew three years later. With the same six-hun- dred-mile range as the Regulus I, its primary advantage over the older missile was its Mach 2 speed, although it could reach over eleven hundred miles at reduced speeds. The Navy cancelled the canard configured missile in December 1958. The Triton, a twelve- thousand-mile-range, Mach 3.5 missile, got as far as full-scale development in 1955 but not into production. Cruise missiles gave way to another technology, ballistic missiles. Arleigh Burke as chief of naval operations was significant for unlike his predecessor, he favored fleet ballistic missiles. In May 1957 the Navy planned to put a surface-launched 1,200-nm ballistic missile to sea by January 1963, followed by a submerged-launched 1,500-nm missile by January 1965. The Navy pushed schedule above all else and willingly accepting lower performance, fearing an Air Force takeover of all missile weapons. Sputnik accelerated the timetable. 634 The breakt