uld have a third opportunity, and three would prove to be a charm. The First American Service Jet Bombers Only two of the jet aircraft in the "B-40" series went into production, the first of which was the not very successful North American B-45 Tornado. It illustrates the problems the airmen encountered convert- ing to jet propulsion. The AAF pushed to get a jet bomber quickly into the field and ordered the immediate production of the Tornado in August 1946, months before the bomber's first flight the following March. The North American aircraft was powered by four jet engines mounted in two nacelles fitted into the straight wing and defended by a manned tail turret with twin .50-caliber machine guns. Aside from its bubble canopy and lack of propellers, it looked like a World War II bomber. The Air Force accepted the first B-45A in April and put the jet into ser- vice that November.3 The company had to make "extensive post-completion modifica- tions" involving strengthening the airframe, fixing the pressurization, and, as a result of a fatal crash in September 1948, increasing the span of the horizontal stabilizer and adding ejection seats for the pilots. The manufac- turer did not solve the high-speed stability problems until May 1949. Other difficulties included component malfunctions, lack of spare parts and engines that created delays. One author has written that "unfortunately, the B-45 also earned an early reputation for being unreliable and a maintenance For decades the Flying Wing has been celebrated by enthusiasts as a futuristic air- craft that lost out to an inferior aircraft (the B-36). There were charges at congressional hearings of corrupt and biased procurement, renewed by Jack Northrop in 1980 shortly before his death. Although the Flying Wing was faster than the B-36 (at least 50 mph top speed and 150 mph cruising speed), it had only about one-third the range, a restricted bomb-carrying capacity, and significant stability problems. Although these is