n military aviator of the interwar period is in order. William "Billy" Mitchell (1879-1936) enlisted in the Army during the Spanish American War and later learned to fly at the relatively advanced age of thirty-six. He was in France when the United States entered World War I and soon became the top- ranking American airman in Europe. During the war he proved to be an excellent com- bat leader, commanding large air forces, and came into contact with Hugh Trenchard. In 1921 he planned the bombing operations that sank captured German warships, which dramatically demonstrated the vulnerability of navies to aircraft and the power of the air arm, an event that was the high point of his career. Because his ideas for an indepen- dent air force and personal ambitions were thwarted, a frustrated Mitchell made some harsh, intemperate public remarks, was court-martialed, and consequently resigned from the Army in 1926. A prolific writer, he pushed for a greater role for the air arm and its independence until his death in 1936. He became a symbol of the maverick standing up against the system, a mistreated visionary and towering air force leader. He inspired many airmen, and some refer to him as a prophet and martyr of air power. World War I sowed the seeds. An aero- nautical commission sent to Europe to survey the scene (headed by Maj. Raynal Bolling), and strongly influenced by Mitch- ell, called for a force consisting of over 60 percent bombers and the bombardment of Germany and wrote that such bombing might be decisive.27 This was rejected by the War Department, which in August 1918 approved a plan for a force in 1919 of about 20 percent bombers. Despite the limited use and impact of strategic bombing in the war, the airmen developed a full-blown and independent American theory of strategic bombing at the Air Corps Tactical School. The Tac School occupied this central posi- tion because it was the airmen's highest educational establishment and was where most of the United St