nt U.S. Air Force. The Army mainly supported this development, but the Navy did not. And now there was a three-way fight over bud- gets, intensified by the government's policy of economy, that would fan the flames of interservice rivalry. The primary task of these forces was to deal with the Cold War. This face-off between an American- and a Soviet-led coalition dominated the foreign policies of the world, spawned an arms race, ampli- fied a number of conflicts, and provided the military with its justification for forty years. World War II reshuffled a multipolar world into a bipolar world and encouraged The American atomic advantage was far less than believed at the time. One factor that undercut the U.S. edge was the condition of the delivery systems. When the war ended in 1945 the United States had the largest and most powerful air force in the world, but the stampede to demobilize gutted the AAF. Numbers dramatically plummeted, skills declined, and morale dropped, all undermin- ing the effectiveness of the air arm. 1 The AAF established the Strategic Air Com- mand (SAC) in March 1946 as its strategic bombardment force, and by year's end it had 148 B-29s (30 configured for nuclear delivery), a far cry from the thousands of bombers it had deployed in the war. Even these numbers conceal the reality of the situation as only three of SAC's five groups in the United States were considered more than 60 percent effective and a year later, SAC rated two of its eleven groups as effec- tive. Only one unit, the 509th Bomb Group, was capable of delivering the atomic bomb. The United States' nuclear advantage was a "hollow threat."2 The situation gradually improved as the number of delivery vehicles increased, by 1948 to over 100 nuclear- capable aircraft, by 1950 to 225 bombers, and by 1951 to 364 aircraft. The air arm also lacked atomic bombs. The United States had 9 bombs in 1946, 50 by 1948, and 450 by 1950. The bombs, 157 rather their components, were under the control o