ups reached the target area before the remain- ing three. The greatest misfortune was the attacker's misidentification of the turning point, which carried two of the five groups away from the target and led Ent to order his formation to attack targets of opportu- nity, only six bombers of which bombed Ploesti. The other lost group flew into the target area on the reciprocal heading of the plan and bombed, but its bombers hit targets assigned to other units, which meant they later passed through the smoke and exploding bombs as well as Libs on the opposite course. The bombers flew at very low altitudes (one hundred to three hundred feet), met intense antiaircraft fire from twice the number of guns expected, encountered some fighters, and had to dodge chim- neys and balloon cables. Consequently the disrupted American bombers, many badly battered, were unable to fly the planned recovery route in formation and instead returned in dribs and drabs, many to the nearest airfield within range, twenty-one diverting into other Allied bases (Cyprus, Malta, and Sicily). The Ninth Air Force commander expected losses as high as 50 percent and was not far off as between forty-nine and fifty-three bombers were destroyed, two were written off as junk, and seven were interned in Turkey-approxi- mately one-third of those dispatched and almost half of those that bombed Ploesti. Results were about half of expecta- tions: Three of the targeted refineries were untouched and the other six reduced production by 46 percent. The Germans quickly responded by putting idle capacity into production and repairing the dam- age. More critical, there were no follow up attacks until the spring of 1944. The high cost of low-level bombing was once again demonstrated. The AAF awarded five Medals of Honor (three posthumously), the most for any AAF/USAF mission. Any operation that costs one-third of the force, does not inflict decisive damage, can not be followed up, and merits the award of five of the nati