x low-flying bombers was lost) and on November 11, 1943, when ten Lancasters attacked (and all survived). A third attack on the viaduct on February 12, 1944, met tough defenses and also failed to take out the structure, although one 12,000- pound bomb hit within forty-five feet of the target. In contrast, the night attack of twelve Lancasters of the elite squadron against an aircraft engine factory at Linoges on February 8, 1944, was a rousing success. The factory was destroyed; there was neither collateral damage nor losses. The Ruhr lays in western Germany, along the Rhine River, less than thirty miles from the Dutch border and thus easier to reach than other German targets. This geographic advantage was nullified, if not cancelled, by industrial haze, the concen- tration of cities, and most of all, tough German defenses. The assault began in early March 1943 and ended four months later. (To be clear, while the bulk of the attacks during this period were against cities in the Ruhr, Bomber Command hit other targets as far east and south as Stettin, Pilsen, and Munich.) The British employed two major tactics. The first used the main force, sometimes led by Mosquitoes marking the target on major attacks. The second method employed small numbers of Mosquitoes, no more than a baker's dozen, hitting mainly diversionary targets. During this period there were forty-three major attacks on Germany that sustained 4.7 percent losses of the sorties flown. The RAF concluded that this toll was sustainable but realized that losses greater than 7 percent were not and that losses above 5 percent would lower effectiveness by eroding aircrew experi- ence and morale. Despite this stiff attrition Bomber Command increased its daily aver- age crew strength from 593 in February to 787 in August. These low-level precision-bombing missions, although they sometimes achieved spectacular tactical results, yielded question- able strategic results. The RAF launched its most skilled, most experie