sand and thirty-five thousandV-1s, of which perhaps two-thirds were fired in anger. Clearly the Germans might have used the resources devoted to the V-1 in a better fashion. For example, the missile absorbed half of the army's explosive consumption in the third quarter of 1944 and forced the Germans to supplement explosives in artil- lery shells with rock salt. It is nevertheless true that the V-1 offensive cost the defenders much more than the attackers. A wartime British study put the cost to the Allies (accounting for damage and loss of produc- tion as well as British defenses) at 3.8 times the cost to the Germans; however, the Allies could afford the cost, the Germans could not. The V-1 had little military impact other than diverting resources from other action. It was chiefly a psychological weapon that shook the war-weary Britons but failed to break their morale. Deficiencies of accuracy, numbers, intelligence, pay load, and vulner- ability prevented the weapon from achieving decisive results in World War II and seemed to leave the weapon little future. The V-2 Ballistic Missile Campaign Technical problems proved to be a more important hindrance to the missile campaign. One source states that a fifth of the fifty-one hundred V-1s fired at Antwerp crashed, while another asserts that the failure rate was at least 35 percent. Another major problem that undercut missile effectiveness was a lack of accuracy. The overall CEP for the V-1s launched from ground sites in France was about eight miles. To defend Britain, the Allies employed fighters, antiaircraft guns, and barrage bal- loons. While the V-1's small size, relatively high speed, and low altitude operation made it difficult to spot, and its simple construc- tion made it tough to down, the missile could only fly straight and level. Although fighters were important, over time the defense evolved to depend mainly on flak deployed at the British coast that by early August numbered six hundred heavy and fourteen h