k in September 1944 just over six thou- sand Libs were in AAF colors, and at their maximum overseas strength the AAF had thirty-three B-17 groups (September 1944) and forty-six B-24 groups (June 1944) in service. In addition twenty-five hundred Liberators served with British forces. In late 1938 the Air Corps asked Con- solidated to consider building the B-17, to which the company responded by suggest- ing a new and better bomber, for which it got a contract the next March. The designers built the XB-24 around a high-aspect-ratio wing, which had performance advantages (especially in range) over existing types, and a large fuselage. The aircraft also featured tricycle landing gear, which was just com- ing into use, roller-shutter bomb bay doors, The Boeing B-17 was an old design compared to most World War II bombers, having first flown in July 1935. Seen here is the "G" model that went into action in late 1943 and was the ultimate and the most produced Flying Fortress, distinguished by its chin turret. B-17s dropped 60 percent of the bombs dropped by U.S. heavy bombers in Europe. (U.S. Naval Institute Archive) Compared to the B-17, the Consolidated B-24 was built in larger numbers, was much more versatile, and had some performance advantages. But it did not receive as much publicity or praise because it lacked the Fort's ruggedness, looks, and easy handling. Its most famous operation was the August 1943 low-level Ploesti raid seen here. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) which cut drag, and a distinctive twin tail configuration. The slab side, boxcar-like, broad fuselage could accommodate up to eight thousand pounds of bombs and endowed the aircraft with great versatil- ity but did not enhance its appearance. The bomber made its initial flight in Decem- ber 1939, a remarkably short time after its 103 inception. The aircraft's major virtues were range and versatility. The Americans fitted their first bomber versions (B-24B and C) with self-sealing tanks and dorsal a