ense facilities, airfields, logistics choke points, and other targets of high military value."8 The Air Force procured fifty-nine F-117As. Stealth technology had granted penetrating bombers a new lease on life. The F-117 made its combat debut in Panama in December 1989. The aircraft was not employed because of its stealth characteristics-the Panamanians had no air defense capability-but for its night bomb- ing accuracy. The United States aimed to minimize casualties of both the Panamanian military-a former and future ally near an important U.S. strategic interest, the Panama Canal-and, of course, civilians. Therefore the Army wanted bombs to impact near the Panamanian Guardia National barracks to disorient possible opposition. The Air Force launched six aircraft from their Nevada base, supported by five aerial refuelings, on the round-trip mission of fifty-two hundred nautical miles. The crews encountered both marginal weather and indecision and confu- sion as to precisely what was required, both Getting the aircraft into operations was not easy. Because of the changes in the program, various difficulties, high security, and the initial lack of a ground simula- tor, the unit was nineteen months late becoming operational. The project was very maintenance intensive. Initially the prior to takeoff and in the air. The aiming point was changed as many as four times between takeoff and bomb delivery. Some believe, and one journalist reported, that the bombs landed somewhat farther from their target than planned. The unit commander, hardly a disinterested observer, insists the bombs landed exactly where they were supposed to land. In his words the "airplane performed precisely as it was intended to perform."9 In any case the bombs did not kill anyone on the ground or hit a hospital located behind the barracks. Its next appear- ance would be much more successful. 285 Arab world, dictate Middle East policy, and control the world's oil supply. Following a failed and costly wa