Y went into operation in 1976. These missiles are armed with three to seven MIRVs that can reach 3,500 to 4,300 nm, depending on the number of warheads. The Soviets built fourteen of this class. In 1985 the first Delta IV-class boat went into service. It is larger than its predecessor and carries sixteen R-29M (SS-N-23 Skif) three-stage liquid- fueled missiles armed with four MIRVs. It is larger than the R-29 and capable of exceed- ing forty-three hundred nautical miles. The Soviets built seven Delta IVs. In the next decade the Soviets put the even more capable Typhoon-class submarines to sea, the largest submarine in the world. It has twice the displacement of the Delta IV and 40 percent more than the American Trident. While about the same length as each of the smaller boats, the Typhoon is much wider and built with multiple-pressure hulls. The Soviets launched the first Typhoon in September 1980 and commissioned it a little over a year later. Although notable for its size, the Typhoon had greater maneuverability, was quieter, faster, and deeper diving, and had a greater endurance than the Delta IV. It was armed with twenty R-39 (SS-N-20 Sturgeon) ballistic missiles. Each of these solid-propellant three-stage missiles can carry  270 CHAPTER 10 MISSILES 186 YDS OR 170M SOALZ VSSE Football Field with a decrease in range due to submarine launch. The Russians designed it to counter ballistic missile defenses, claiming it can perform evasive maneuvers, disperse decoys during midcourse flight, and carry shielding to protect its warhead. The missile carries six to ten MIRVs, although a tradeoff between warhead numbers and decoys and shielding is necessary. The missile was successfully test launched twice in 2005 from a Typhoon boat, with tests continuing in 2006 and 2007. Western commentators write that the Topol-M and its sibling, the Bulava, will form the core of the Russian strategic mis- sile force in the future. ten warheads out to fifty-four hundred nau- tical miles