eventeen Boeing bombers in combat, wrote off two due to battle damage, and lost another dozen to operational causes. SAC flew almost 125,500 sorties, of which only 6 percent were over North Vietnam. An important consequence of the Vietnam War was its impact on the USAF. SAC had dom- inated the Air Force and the U.S. military The North Vietnamese were defeated, not by superior strategy, tactics, or technol- ogy, but by numbers and courage. Both 225 during the 1950s, but now its influence receded. The dominance of bomber generals diminished in favor of the fighter generals. It now would be a different Air Force. low level for four hundred nautical miles. Meanwhile the Navy was looking for a replacement for its F-4 as a fleet air defense fighter that would have extended loiter and the ability to carry a number of heavy air-to-air missiles. The Dwight Eisenhower administration believed that one aircraft would be able to do both jobs and in so doing save money and therefore directed the services to work together. However, it was the next administration's secretary of defense, Robert McNamara, who pushed the concept of a common aircraft. In Octo- ber 1961 the request for proposal was issued and the defense secretary announced that he was thinking in terms of an aircraft that was 85 percent common with a combined Air Force-Navy production buy of over three thousand. The F-111 It was during the Vietnam War that the Air Force's next bomber first saw action, albeit a tactical version in a tactical role. The F-111 was probably the most controversial USAF aircraft of all time from the conten- tious selection of General Dynamics as its builder, through its problems, and especially its troubled early combat service. These problems and high cost generated a flood of criticism, prompted considerable press atten- tion, and congressional hearings. Despite all of this, two decades after its less than glori- ous combat debut in Vietnam it flew in the Gulf War with advantages over other