ingenuity well beyond the capabilities of German industry. (The reader will note that this preceded the German experience in Spain.) The German Air Ministry issued a design requirement to Heinkel, only months before it cancelled the Ju 89 and Do 19 in 1937, that called for a top speed of 335 mph and the ability to carry at least two thousand pounds for 4,160 miles. The company's major challenge was the lack of suitable power plants, which it met by mounting two engines side by side and coupling them through a transmission to a single propeller shaft, thus combining the power of two engines with the drag of one propeller. The He 177 was a four-engine bomber with two props, an arrangement that Heinkel disliked but found necessary to achieve the required performance and dive bombing capability. A second innovation to reduce drag involved a surface evaporative cooling system instead of conventional radiators. This worked on the He 100 fighter, but not on the larger He 177, and was deleted by the spring of 1939, a change reducing speed from 311 mph to 286 mph. Another innovation intended to reduce drag was to use remotely controlled gun turrets instead of manned turrets. The bomber was to be defended by three of these along with a manned tail turret. If these innovations did not challenge the design sufficiently, the dive bombing requirement of 60 degrees surely did. Oper- ationally this would improve bomb accuracy, but decreasing altitude would expose the bomber to increasingly lethal antiaircraft artillery. The design implications were also significant because dive bombing produced greater aerodynamic loads that required a stronger airframe and wing that in turn increased aircraft weight and decreased The prototype flew for the first time in November 1939 and quickly exhibited sig- nificant problems as the flight was cut short due to alarming engine temperatures. In addition the aircraft performed poorly with its top speed 15 percent and range 25 per- cent below requir