ungrammatical as it may be, that "if it doesn't look good it won't fly good."The Mosquito looked good, and could it fly! And its unorthodox origin, out- side the RAF system, helps explain its rapid development, only twenty-two months between design and combat. The De Havilland Mosquito differed radically from other bombers of the war with its wooden construction, two-man crew, and lack of defensive armament. It had exceptional flying performance that enabled it to outrun most German fighters. Almost eight thousand were built in three countries, and it served not only as a bomber but also in fighter, intruder, transport, and reconnaissance roles. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) 07313 De Havilland, well known for its World War I military aircraft, had concentrated on civil aircraft after the war. In 1938 the com- pany investigated the military applications of its four-engine, wooden, fast transport, the Albatross. The design team emphasized speed above all else, regarding armament as an impediment, and favored wood con- struction. Lack of armament would lighten the aircraft and allow a more streamlined airframe, while wood construction would ease competition for metal and simplify repairs. De Havilland settled on a small two- engine design manned by a two-man crew. The government showed little interest in the proposal until the war's start, and even in mid-December 1939 the commander of Bomber Command stated he had "no use" for an unarmed bomber. Nevertheless two weeks later the government and De Havil- land agreed on the concept of a wooden, unarmed, two-man bomber that could carry a 1,000-pound bomb fifteen hundred miles with fighter performance. The design was to emphasize producability, simplicity, and low cost. The government awarded De Havilland a contract for fifty aircraft in March 1940, deleted it from production after Dunkirk, but restored it within weeks. The GAF dealt the program a setback in October when it destroyed a warehouse housing Mosquito mate