ncoming missiles at the range of three hundred nautical miles and an altitude of one hundred nautical miles and kill them with x-rays from a 5-megaton warhead. It was tested between 1968 and 1973. A new short-range high-acceleration missile, the Sprint, which accelerated at 100 g's and reached Mach 10 in a mere five seconds, would use the atmosphere to sort out and intercept warheads from decoys and debris at a maximum range of one hundred nauti- cal miles and around forty thousand feet altitude. It first flew in November 1965.The system also used a new type radar, phased array radar (PAR), that could handle more than one target at a time, was more resistant to nuclear blackout, and had greater range than existing radars. in June 1958, in an improved version, as the Nike Hercules. The Army achieved some success with adaptations of SAMs as an ABM. The Army's Hawk SAM intercepted a short-range Honest John ballistic missile and the Hercules intercepted both a Corporal and another Hercules. In 1956 the Army proposed a new Nike missile as a defense against ICBMs. BMD became embroiled in interservice rivalry as the Army and Air Force dueled for this mission, leading the secretary of defense in November 1956 to grant the Army the terminal (point) defense role, and the USAF area defense. In January 1958 the secretary gave the Army the entire anti-ballistic-missile defense mission. Critics of BMD have been vocal and their arguments continue to this day. Aside from the basic problem of intercepting the incoming missile, other issues include sort- ing out decoys and debris from warheads, defending against a saturation attack, the systems vulnerability to direct attack, and the inability to test the entire system. There are also financial, domestic political, and diplo- matic objections. The Soviets also were engaged in ABM efforts. The Griffon was an enlarged SAM resembling the SA-2 ofVietnam War fame that began flight tests in 1957 and report- edly intercepted a ballistic mis