ghter pilots attracted the most attention at the time, and since, with the myth and mystique of the "Red Baron," his cohorts, and opponents. The air war was much cleaner and more romantic than the horror and slaughter of trench warfare on the western front, although also quite deadly. Strategic bombing has received much less attention, correctly so, as it had less impact on the war and was much smaller in scale. It did, however, cast a long and dark shadow. The Zeppelins The first sustained strategic air offen- sive came from a technology that would become a mere footnote in history, the lighter-than-air machines. It is easy from our present position to scoff at these craft, knowing how they fared, going extinct as the dinosaurs that they resembled. It should not be forgotten, however, that in the early years of the war, airships had clear advan- tages over their heavier-than-air competi- tors: greater altitude, rate of climb, range, payload, and endurance. Lighter-than-air machines markedly improved in the nineteenth century. Initially balloons were lifted by hot air, which was quickly seen as an inferior lifting agent when compared with hydrogen, although the latter presented a constant and con- siderable problem due to its flammability. Balloons evolved from an essentially non- steerable, inverted-teardrop shape into pow- ered, elongated balloons called dirigibles. Count Ferdinard von Zeppelin was respon- sible for airship development in Germany and went on to dominate the technology and give the vehicle his name. The count made his first flight in a bal- loon during the American Civil War and ten years later conceived of the idea of a large "air cruiser." It was not until 1894 that these ideas took shape in his proposal for a vehicle 384 feet long powered by two 11-horse- power (hp) engines, a project the German government reasonably rejected on technical grounds. Nevertheless Zeppelin persisted. He modified his early design to a more practi- cal cigar-shaped ga