perations."12 aircraft, and supply problems. Nevertheless the unit flew almost 170 sorties in 1916 and 1917, 59 percent against blast furnaces. While the two allies bombed together, their objectives were fundamentally different. The French only saw morale as a target in retalia- tory raids, while the Admiralty considered morale a much higher priority. Some other aspects of this small bomb- ing campaign deserve notice. The airmen relied on crew reports and bombing effort (e.g., sorties and bombs dropped) to measure bombing results. Separate postwar American and British bombing surveys found much less damage than the wartime reports and demonstrated the shortcomings of this method. Bomb damage assessment is a problem that has persisted throughout the history of bombing. Another problem was that perhaps as many as one-quarter of the bombs failed to explode. One aspect that wartime intelligence may have gotten wrong, as have some postwar historians, is the assertion that the Germans were forced to deploy fighter units to defend against this bombing. Overall the claims of bomb- ing effectiveness were overblown, another perennial aspect of aerial warfare. On October 12, 1916, British and French bombers accompanied by escort fighters, including some piloted by Ameri- cans in the soon-to-be-named Escadrille Lafayette, attacked the Mauser armament plant at Oberndorf. While eighteen of the thirty-one bombers hit the city with just under two tons of bombs with unknown results, German fighters rose and downed nine Allied bombers with no German losses. One of the deepest raids was on May 18, 1918, when thirty-three British aircraft bombed Cologne, killing 110. There were also reprisal raids. On April 14, 1917, the bombers attacked Freiburg in response to the sinking of two hospital ships. German attacks on Britain provoked a public and political outcry that the British military could not resist. Trenchard appeared before the British Cabinet in June 1917, where he rejected politi