traight and level. Although fighters were important, over time the defense evolved to depend mainly on flak deployed at the British coast that by early August numbered six hundred heavy and fourteen hundred light guns. Technical devices such as better radar, gunfire direc- tors, and proximity fuses aided the defense. By the end of the campaign the guns were downing the majority of the incoming V-1s. The Germans also employed a longer range, ground-launched version of the mis- sile, firing the first against Britain in March 1945. It had a lighter wing and warhead, enabling it to carry more fuel and fly 220 miles, 90 more miles than the standard ver- sion. The Germans fired 275 of these, but only 13 reached London with a CEP of twelve miles.24 German plans to install more powerful engines to increase speed and range, radio control to improve navigation and accuracy, along with submarine launch and a piloted version were never put into service. The Germans fired 10,500 V-1s at Britain, 4,300 of which were downed by the defenders, with some 2,400 missiles reaching London. The missiles killed sixty- two hundred civilians, 90 percent of them in London. On a ton-for-ton basis the V-1 killed approximately three times the number of Britons as did the bombing. The Luftwaffe modified its V-1 offensive in two ways. One effort involved air launch- ing approximately sixteen hundred V-1s from He 111 bombers, beginning in early July and continuing into January 1945. This With the overrunning of the German V-1 launch sites in France, the Brit- ish thought the bombardment of their homeland was over, and on September 7, 1944, the minister of home security ended the evacuation of London. That same day The other German missile program was similar to the V-1 in terms of accuracy, range, goals, and effect, although it was based on an entirely different technology. For in contrast to the cheap, simple, winged V-1, the V-2 (designated A-4 by the Germans) was a ballistic missile that was muc