ho manned seven guns mounted in five (Top) The MB-2 (NBS-1) equipped all of America's bomber forces in 1925 and served into the late years of that decade. It could carry three thousand pounds of bombs and, like the Handley Page O/400, featured folding wings. The MB-2 is best remembered for its role in the sinking of surface ships led by Billy Mitchell in July 1921. (Historical Research Agency, USAF) (Right) America's Barling bomber (NBL-1) was a giant disappointment. The largest and heaviest aircraft of its day, it was an aerodynamic monstrosity with its six engines, three wings, and boxlike empennage with four rudders. This massive airframe coupled with inadequate power produced poor performance. (National Museum of the USAF) positions. At an empty weight of almost twenty-eight thousand pounds and takeoff weight (without bombs) of just over thirty- two thousand pounds, it was the heaviest aircraft flying for a number of years. The bomber proved to be a failure. An official test report indicated that the Barling could not meet performance specifications even when flying without armament or bombs. These tests demonstrated a maxi- mum speed of ninety-six miles per hour at sea level and a service ceiling of seventy- 23 three hundred feet. (This meant that it could not cross the eastern U.S. mountains with a heavy load or with a safety margin in the event of engine failure.) Its range was also disappointing: only 170 miles with 2.5 tons of bombs. The test pilot noted that considering its size it was not difficult to land, but it was "somewhat different" than normal size aircraft, referring to the craft's inertia and slow response to the controls. The NBL-1's approach speed was fast; the pilot opined it should not be slower than  CHAPTER 2 24 THE INTERWAR YEARS 25 purpose of requirements and specifications aircraft be categorized into seven groups, which included light bombers and heavy bombers. Light bombers would carry twelve hundred pounds or less, and heavy bombers m