de named Loon), and its own Gorgon and Pollux, missiles pow- ered by a variety of power plants-rocket, turbojet, and pulsejet. These led nowhere. However, in response to the AAF contract to Martin in May 1947 for a winged missile (later named Matador), the Navy quickly responded with a counterpart that could be launched from submarines. The sea service was desperately seeking a nuclear delivery device because it was being pushed aside in the development of strategic weapons by the Air Force with its monopoly of the nuclear delivery system of choice, the long-range bomber. Although the Navy's attempts with The Chance Vought Regulus looked very much like the Martin Matador and was powered by the same J 33 turbojet engine, and thus it is not surprising that their performance and costs were similar. Although the Matador was about a year ahead of the Navy missile and there was pressure from the Department of Defense (DoD) to adapt the USAF missile for sea service, the Navy successfully fought off such an effort, confirmed by a June 1950 decision.10 The Navy missile initially flew in March 1951, with its first submarine launch in July 1953. The Regulus was sur- face launched from a submarine and then guided to impact by two other submarines. The missile could also be launched from surface ships and guided by aircraft and became operational aboard submarines, The Navy Programs The Navy brought unique attributes to the strategic weapons arsenal. It offered mobile platforms that were difficult to locate and track. Sea-based platforms also avoided the diplomatic problems of base rights associated with aircraft and shorter range missiles. Submarines added stealth to the mix. Quiet, deep cruising, mobile submarines are considerably more difficult to detect than surface ships. The submarine's advantage greatly increased with the advent of nuclear energy, which gave essentially unlimited range and underwater endurance to the submerged launch platforms. The Navy's problem was to s