: It had been extensively flight tested and the USAF desired to salvage some of its large investment in the aircraft. In August the Air Force awarded Northrop a contract for thirty RB-49As. However, in December 1948 the Air Force cancelled the RB-49 and instead purchased additional B-36s. The major factors in this decision The B-49 was Northrop's jet version of the B-35, in which the company substituted jets for the piston engines and added four trailing-edge fins and four wing fences. The resulting aircraft had control problems and lacked range and a bomb bay that could accommodate the atomic bomb. (National Museum of the USAF) 183 were timing and performance. The Convair bomber was already coming off the produc- tion lines, while the Northrop aircraft would not be available until the appearance of the B-47, a bomber that was faster and able to carry the large nuclear weapons of the day. The USAF was especially concerned about the Flying Wing's stability during bomb runs. In October 1948 tests conducted along with a B-29 its pilots reported it was "extremely unstable" and that "it was impossible to hold a steady course or a constant airspeed and altitude."2 The Flying Wing had twice the bombing error of the Superfort, which supported the airmen's general view that the Northrop aircraft was unsuitable for either bombing or recon- naissance work. Therefore the Air Force terminated the bomber program in March 1950, although testing continued. Too late for serious consideration, the last version, the YRB-49A, first flew in May 1950 powered by six engines, four housed internally and two underslung on separate pylons, marring its clean lines but providing more room for internal fuel. wanted a long-range bomber as quickly as possible. As we shall see, the Northrop "design" would have a third opportunity, and three would prove to be a charm. The First American Service Jet Bombers Only two of the jet aircraft in the "B-40" series went into production, the first of which was