aval Institute Photo Archive) difficult to handle in some flight regimes as it possessed radically different handling characteristics, experienced aileron reversal at high speeds, and problems with high landing speeds. They also severely criticized the cockpit layout for its lack of atten- tion to ergonomics and limited visibility. Overall, the ground crews found the aircraft unreliable and the aircrews found it unsafe. Its downward ejection seats and frequent accidents fed its notorious reputation, lead- ing some to call the aircraft "unflyable," and apparently some crews refused to fly the bomber.37 Nevertheless, the Blinder went into service in 1962. Tupolev reportedly regarded his bold design as one of his "less fortunate creations." The aircraft served in bombing, recon- naissance, ECM, and missile carrying (with the Kh-22 cruise missile semienclosed) roles, with the latter becoming its primary function. In 1965 the Soviets added aileron fences to solve the aileron reversal problem, changed to slightly more powerful engines, and fitted aerial refueling equipment to a number of the aircraft. Despite the accidents, short range, and limited payload capacity, the Soviets built 311 Blinders, and prior to the Soviet breakup in 1991, they had 155 to 180 Blinders in service. In the  lock CHAPTER 8 210 BETWEEN KOREA AND VIETNAM end, however, the bomber was a failure. It was intended as a replacement for the Bad- ger, but it had little performance advantage, could carry only one missile while the Bad- ger could carry three, and proved unreliable and accident prone. Although about two dozen Blinders provided ECM support for Backfire bomb- ers in Afghanistan, most of the bombers saw combat in non-Russian colors. The Soviets sold Tu-22s to the Libyans, who employed them in March 1979 against a town in Tan- zania, in an off-and-on seven-year campaign over Chad during which SAMs downed two, and in strikes against targets in Sudan in 1984 and 1985. The Iraqis used Tu-22s in th