technical challenges. Power was one of the challenges. Steam and electric power were unsuitable, and only toward the end of the nineteenth century did the internal combustion engine present a viable power source. Control was a more difficult issue. The sustained effort of the Wright brothers broke that barrier and was the last critical step on the road to successful powered flight. The military quickly employed the heavier-than-air craft in war. When the Ital- ians went to war against the Turks in Libya in 1911, they deployed nine airplanes with 1  THE EARLY YEARS THROUGH WORLD WAR I 3 CHAPTER 1 2 the invading force and went on to establish a number of "firsts." In November they dropped the first bombs in combat, despite the two Hague conventions (1899 and 1907) that prohibited such action. (There is no mention in the secondary sources of any protests or international reactions to these violations.) These rather modest efforts are noteworthy coming so soon after the first successful powered flight and as an accurate precursor of what was shortly to follow. World War I erupted two years later. While there were many more aircraft involved in the war, these were limited in capability and used primarily in the same roles. Strategic bombing, of a sort, was introduced only a few days after the war's beginning in August by the Germans, who dropped a few small bombs on Paris, killing one woman. The British bombed a Cologne railway station in October but achieved more dramatic success that same day when one aircraft destroyed a zeppelin in its shed at Dusseldorf.1 The Germans dropped their first bomb on England in December 1914. While these were mere pin pricks, they foreshad- owed more concerted efforts. Nevertheless, for the most part the airmen supported the ground forces. Fighter pilots attracted the most attention at the time, and since, with the myth and mystique of the "Red Baron," his cohorts, and opponents. The air war was much cleaner and more romantic than the hor