he bomb- ers' reaction, using rockets against the tight formation or pouncing on the bombers that dispersed to avoid the rockets. Sixty bombers went down and another two were written off for salvage. The bombers claimed 228 victories and the escort fighters another 30 victories for 8 losses, while the Germans admit to losing 53 fighters destroyed and 31 junked. Action subsided until the end of February, when one of the milestone air battles of the war took place. Called "Big Week," the bombing flurry was dominated by poor weather, fierce battles, and heavy losses. On February 19 USSTAF weathermen forecast a clearing trend over Europe, prompting the airmen to plan a major operation, a series of Anglo- American bomber attacks on German aircraft factories. It began that night when Bomber Command attacked a Me 109 plant in Leipzig and ended with a Bomber Command attack on Schweinfurt on the night of February 25, which incidentally was the only coordinated effort by the three air forces. In the operation Bomber Com- mand flew five missions, the Eighth five, and the Fifteenth four. The operation was highly touted at the time. Arnold wrote that Big Week "may well be classed by future histori- ans as marking a decisive battle of history, one as decisive and of greater importance than Gettysburg."27 Since then airmen and historians have elevated it to almost mythical status as the decisive battle of the air war. However, it is unknown to most of the public, for it was neither an Allied disaster similar to the Ploesti, Schweinfurt, or Nuremburg actions nor as devastating as the Hamburg or Dresden raids. Instead it was a concentrated series of attacks that delivered an effective body blow to the GAF. The three strategic air forces pounded mostly German aircraft factories with nearly twenty thousand tons of bombs on sixty-three hundred sorties; the RAF deliv- ered just over half the tonnage, while the AAF contributed three-fifths of the sorties. Allied losses were high, 378 bom