nsive and defensive aerial needs. Both the British and Germans knew of the device's impact on radar, but both resisted using it, fearing that their oppo- nent would benefit more than themselves. Although the British Chiefs of Staff agreed in April 1942 to use Window, concerns over its impact on British night fighter radar delayed its employment until the Hamburg raids of July 1943. Another electronic aid was Boozer, which the British thrust into action in late 1942. It gave a visual indication when the bomber was under airborne radar 77 surveillance (yellow light) or ground radar (red light). Monica was a tail warning device introduced in the spring of 1943 that could detect enemy night fighter radar emissions up to one thousand yards. However, the interceptors were able to home in on Mon- ica, more than nullifying its usefulness. (The British learned of this in July 1944, when a Ju 88 night fighter mistakenly landed in Britain.) In June 1943 Fighter Command employed Beaufighters with a device called Serrate, which detected German night fighter radar emissions and indicated their bearings out to eighty to one hundred miles. In three months British fighters made twelve hundred contacts but only were able to engage twenty in combat and claim the destruction of thirteen. Harris wanted more than ten squadrons of night fighters assigned to the defense of Britain but received only three, which claimed the destruction of 257 Luftwaffe fighters. Both Bomber and Fighter Command flew intruder missions equipped with Serrate, which became increasingly ineffective as the war progressed. but were limited in numbers with only an average of fifty-eight available to Bomber Command as late as March 1944. Because the target area proved most deadly for the bombers, there was a premium on getting the force in and out as quickly as possible. In October 1943 compressing the time over the target was "drastically stepped up." Bomber Command made other improvements that increased its impact.