two nacelles beneath its wing. The Martin bomber incorporated a number of unique features: a tandem main landing gear along with outrigger gear in the engine nacelles, a horizontal bomb bay that utilized clips for quicker and easier loading, and retractable bomb bay doors that lessened drag when opened. The bomber made its first flight in June 1947. It experienced control problems during flight testing, difficulties with gov- ernment-furnished equipment (for example, requiring fourteen engine changes on its first forty-four flights), and could not meet the manufacturer's performance guarantees. More significant, a spring 1948 USAF study concluded that the B-47 had better perfor- mance and greater growth potential. Of all the experimental bombers tested by the AAF/USAF, none has received more attention than the Northrop Flying Wing. Like the XB-43, it was a reincarnation of a prop design and was the most radical of the aircraft in the B-40 series. In June 1945 the airmen authorized Northrop to convert two of its prop-powered XB-35s to jet power with the designation YB-49. To compensate for the loss of stability when the propellers and propeller shaft housings were removed, Northrop added four trail- ing edge fins and four wing fences. The manufacturer deleted defensive armament, and while the aircraft could carry eight tons of bombs, the bomb bays could not accom- modate the large nuclear weapons of the 1940s. The Northrop aircraft made its initial flight in October 1947. One of the two YB-49s crashed in June 1948, killing the crew of five, an accident probably caused by the aircraft's acknowledged stability and control problems. In April 1948 the Flying Wing competed for an Air Force's contract for a reconnais- sance aircraft. It had two major advantages over its rivals: It had been extensively flight tested and the USAF desired to salvage some of its large investment in the aircraft. In August the Air Force awarded Northrop a contract for thirty RB-49As. However, i