ed unsuited for the task at hand. Their best fighter, the Me 109, was range limited.13 Their stellar dive bomber, the Ju 87 Stuka, which had performed so well over Poland and Western Europe under an umbrella of air superiority, proved too vulnerable over Britain and was pulled out of action. Likewise the Me 110, designed as a bomber escort, failed against the Hur- ricanes and Spitfires and had to be escorted. The Germans did not have a heavy bomber, and their medium bombers lacked sufficient defensive firepower, armor, and bomb load to operate successfully against a first rate defense. And the GAF, hampered by poor intelligence, shifted targets. As the battle unfolded the British demonstrated great adaptability as they made cool, calculated, and correct moves to preserve their fighter force, modifying both their tactics and air- craft while inflicting heavy casualties on the Germans. In brief, the RAF played its hand In short order heavy daytime losses forced the GAF to switch to night attacks. The Luftwaffe was prepared for night attacks fielding a Pathfinder Force trained to mark targets for the main force using a bad weather/night navigation system (Knick- ebein) that was accurate within five hundred yards. But it was not enough. Carl Spaatz, an American air observer in London, and later commander of U.S. strategic bombers assaulting Germany, noted at the time, "The British are winning .... The Germans can't bomb at night-hell, I don't think they're very good in daylight-they haven't been trained for night bombing. Nope, the Brit- ish have got them now."10 The Luftwaffe pounded London for sixty nights and during the course of the year killed forty thousand Britons. The air battle along with end of summer led Hitler on September 17 to "postpone" the invasion, although the GAF night attacks continued against weak RAF air defenses.11 In the end the fierce German attack failed to break British morale (it actually stiffened) or defeat RAF fighter command. Although bot