f the importance of the target, the fickle weather, and the fear that the recent raids would encourage the Luft- waffe to reinforce its Regensburg defenses. He also decided to send the 1st Wing out three and a half hours later to allow the weather to clear and the escorting fighters to rearm and refuel for a second sortie. The August 17 attacks are remembered and significant because of the fierce German defenses. There were no new German weap- ons or tactics, just more GAF fighters, about five hundred sorties, almost twice the previ- ous one-day high. Initially the Americans claimed the destruction of 280 GAF fight- ers with over one million rounds of .50s expended. These claims were scaled down to 148, while the Germans put their losses for the day at 40 (one source put it at 27). The Eighth lost 60 bombers (20 percent of those bombing); in addition two crews flew The air war rose to a climax in mid- October, when four missions over a week demonstrated that the Luftwaffe had made the skies over German too dangerous for unescorted bombers. On the eighth the bombers attacked shipyards at Bremen and Vegesack and an aircraft factory at Bremen. The bombers encountered 300 GAF sorties and, despite P-47 escort, lost thirty bombers (plus two more salvaged) on 357 effective sorties. The next day the bombers flew a more ambitious mission. It is notable as being the deepest penetration yet for the Americans and for the outstanding bombing at Marienburg, where the B-17s employed Schweinfurt was the target on October 14, a target the leaders knew would provoke heavy resistance and produce substantial losses. This is clear in the message that Gen- eral Anderson had read at the crew briefings: This air operation today is the most important air operation yet conducted in this war, the target must be destroyed. It is of vital importance to the enemy. Your friends and comrades that have been lost and that will be lost today are depending on you. This sacrifice must not be in vain. G