h 1979 against a town in Tan- zania, in an off-and-on seven-year campaign over Chad during which SAMs downed two, and in strikes against targets in Sudan in 1984 and 1985. The Iraqis used Tu-22s in their war against Iran in the 1980s, hitting a variety of targets, including Iranian cities. The Iranians claimed to have downed at least three Blinders, and there are indications that as many as seven were destroyed during the conflict. The remainder were destroyed in the 1991 Iraq War. Its successor, the Tu-22M Backfire, was perhaps the most controversial Soviet bomber, not for its aerodynamics but over arms-control issues. At the same time it proved to be much more important and a considerable improvement over its prede- cessor. The Backfire was designed to have a twelve-hundred-mile combat radius, a maximum speed of Mach 3, a cruising speed of Mach 2.8, and the ability to carry two Kh-45 ASMs for operations against U.S. air- craft carriers as well as targets in Europe and Pacific regions. Because Nikita Krushchev The Soviets employed a variable-sweep (swing) wing on the Tu-22M (the Backfire C shown here), an aircraft that became the focus of contentious arms-control efforts. The supersonic bomber went into service in the mid-1970s and saw action in Afghanistan and Chechnya, but unlike other Russian bombers, it was not exported. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) 211 restored to aerial refueling status, the Soviets agreed not to enlarge its tanker fleet.) was unhappy with Tupolev, the Russians sent the requirement to other design bureaus. However, the dictator's ouster brought the aircraft designer back into favor, who then offered his design, along with the existing and tried Kh-22 ASM, as an alternative to the struggling and more expensive Sukhoi effort. In November 1967 the Soviets opted for the Tupolev aircraft. Despite its similar designation, the Tu-22M "Backfire" was entirely different from the Tu-22. The bomber went into service in the mid-1970s. The Russians