t that not only marked the route and target but also radioed their calculation of the winds to the main force. While 728 of the crews claimed to have released their bomb loads within three miles of the aiming point, the actual number was 306. Thus accuracy was not exceptional, but the low losses-twelve Bomber Command concentrated its attacks on German city centers because they were easier to find and more flammable due to their density and older construction. It should be noted, however, that for the most part these were residential areas; industrial areas were located elsewhere. Thus Bomber Command directly attacked German citi- zens, certainly their housing, and second- arily and indirectly, German industry. The campaign against the Ruhr demonstrated Bomber Command's ability to concentrate its bomb delivery with the aid of Pathfind- ers using Oboe. Other attacks during this period of more distant targets using radar aiming were not as successful.22  CHAPTER 4 BRITISH STRATEGIC BOMBING bombers-were, as Window completely disrupted the German defenses. Six RAF Mosquitoes raided the city the next two nights, and American Eighth Air Force bombers followed up with daylight raids on July 25 and 26. The AAF launched 244 bombers, of which 154 dropped 322 tons of bombs aimed at ship and submarine construction yards. The Americans lost 17 bombers and claimed 42 GAF fighters destroyed. All of these actions paled to what Bomber Command did on the night of July 27. Again the markers were aimed by radar and placed with exceptional accuracy, allowing 325 of 787 crews launched to get their bombs within three miles of the aim- ing point. The high explosives kept the fire fighters away from the fires and knocked roofs off buildings, making them more vul- nerable to incendiaries. This concentration of bombs, along with the high temperatures and low humidity led to a firestorm that quickly got out of control. The rising hot air drew in oxygen and fanned the flames, created extremely h