er was its large bomb lift capacity and ability to carry giant bombs, including the heavi- est employed in World War II, the 11-ton "Grand Slam." Unlike most combat aircraft built in large numbers, the Lancaster was little changed during the war. Most were fitted with H2S radar and other electronic aids, a few mounted .50-caliber machine guns, and some had bulged bomb doors in order to carry heavier bombs. MP Handley Page modified a twin-engine design into the four-engine Halifax, which went into combat in March 1941. The bomber had deficiencies of defensive armament and a tendency to spin. Although Harris disliked the Halifax, it delivered one-quarter of Bomber Command's bomb tonnage. (San Diego Air and Space Museum) 81  CHAPTER 4 BRITISH STRATEGIC BOMBING 83 The Lancaster flew its first combat mis- sion in March 1942 and became Bomber Command's most capable and primary aircraft. By March 1945 Bomber Command consisted of four hundred Halifaxes sharing bombing duties with the twelve hundred Lancasters. The latter delivered more than 600,000 tons of bombs on 156,000 sor- ties, two-thirds of the bombs dropped by Bomber Command after it entered service. The Lancaster's average delivery load was ninety-two hundred pounds compared with sixty-nine hundred pounds for the Halifax and fifty-six hundred pounds for the Stirling. Although thirty-eight hundred Lan- casters were lost during the war, they had the lowest RAF heavy bomber loss rate.16 It should be noted, however, that the bomber had only one escape hatch, which resulted in proportionally higher crew fatalities than those suffered on other bombers.17 A total of seventy-four hundred Lancasters were built in British and Canadian plants and powered by both British- and American-built Rolls Royce engines. old flying cliché, ungrammatical as it may be, that "if it doesn't look good it won't fly good."The Mosquito looked good, and could it fly! And its unorthodox origin, out- side the RAF system, helps explain its rapid de