ttempted to crush the enemy's moral resistance and will to fight by targeting his armaments industry and food distribution."4 This document was less radical than Douhet and other air power theorists in that it called for escort fighters, espoused a strong air defense setup, and, The most important German airman in the interwar years was Walther Wever. An outstanding staff officer, he was bright, hard working, charming, forceful, and regarded by his superiors as a possible candidate for command of the army. In 1933 he was transferred to the air arm, learned to fly at age forty-six, and became the first chief of the Luftwaffe. Wever shared the view that strategic bombing was primary, but he was more moderate than some air advocates as he did not hold that air power alone could win wars. Wever believed that command of the air and air defense were two of the air force's primary tasks. He laid out five objec- tives for the air arm: first to defeat enemy air forces, the next three to support army and navy operations, and fifth to influence the battlefield by stopping enemy armament production. Wever implored his subordinates to "never forget that that the bomber is the decisive factor in aerial warfare."5 And in late 1934 war games Wever used deep strikes. The Luftwaffe in Action The war in Europe broke out on September 1, 1939, when Germany invaded Poland. To the German's surprise, the fear of the GAF did not keep the British and French from fulfilling their agreements and joining the war against Germany. The Germans planned to bomb the Polish capital and principal city on the first day of the war because Hitler wanted to crush Polish resistance as quickly as possible to deny his partner of On September 25 the Luftwaffe flew 1,150 sorties and dropped five hundred tons of high explosive and seventy-two tons of incendiaries on Warsaw. (Thirty Ju 52s were involved, with aircrew literally shoveling incendiary bombs out of the aircraft.) The attack killed thousands of civilia