Development of Precision Guided Munitions (Tuscaloosa: University of Alabama, 2006). The action in Bosnia-Herzegovina is the subject of the excellent and extensive study, Robert Owen, ed., Deliberate Force: A Case Study in Effective Air Campaigning (Maxwell AFB, Ala .: Air University, 2000). For the 1999 Serbian campaign, I relied primarily on Headquarters United States Air Force, Initial Report, The Air War over Serbia: Aerospace Power in Operation Allied Force, Apr. 2000; and Anthony Cordesman, The Lessons and Non-Lessons of the Air and Missile Campaign in Kosovo, CSIS Sept. 1999 (Westport, Conn .: Praeger/Greenwood, 2000). On the Afghan War David Donald's "Enduring Freedom: Fighting the War against Terrorism," International Air Power Review 4 (Spring 2002): 16-29, was most helpful. 1. This led to a change from a capsule to ejection seats. 2. Radar returns are measured in terms of a flat plate area, and RCS is measured in square meters. The RCS of the B-52 is said to be over one hundred square meters; of the B-1A, ten square meters; of the F-15, about five square meters; and of the B-1B, one to two square meters. Bear in mind that the RCS figures remain classified and that these figures vary by orientation and usually refer to only the head-on RCS. 3. The B-1's three bomb bays had been sized for the SRAM, not for the longer AGM-86B. The B-1B's moveable bulkhead in the forward two bomb bays can accommodate the AGM-86B. Fuel tanks (18,900 pounds capacity) can be fitted into each of the three bomb bays. 4. The importance of a mathematical paper written by Soviet mathematical Pyotr Ufimtsev in the formulation of the Lockheed computer program is controversial, although surely a great story. 5. The aircraft's performance was limited by its low thrust-to-weight ratio and low lift-to-drag ratio. The former was dictated by an engine without an afterburner (to minimize size and IR signa- tures) and the losses due to the inlet and exhaust design, a compromise that emphasized