y testing uncovered no major problems, but it found some minor ones that led to a number of changes, which is the purpose of testing. Leaking fuel tanks were a principal and persistent problem and early on accounted for more than half the days lost to flight testing.17 The bombing/ navigational system proved unsuitable at the bomber's higher speeds and altitudes and there was a lack of lateral control in approach conditions. The bomber's control was enhanced by adding additional spoilers to the wing, which when actuated together acted as speed brakes and when employed individually aided roll. More serious was the finding that there was almost no stall warn- ing in a landing configuration and a rather strong stall. These deficiencies were largely addressed in the YB-52. The result was a bomber powered by eight engines in four pods, looking like an enlarged B-47. While the B-47 experience was of some help to the B-52 project, the two bombers were developed in parallel, not in sequence. The B-52 did resemble the B-47 with swept wings, underslung engines suspended on pylons, bicycle main landing gear, a braking parachute (but not The production models were altered based on this experience. The bicycle main landing gear gave way to a quadricycle gear (four wheels in tandem pairs forward and the same arrangement aft). These were installed with the ability to pivot 20 degrees either side of dead center, allowing the bomber to land in a crab configuration making cross wind landings easier and safer.18 The tandem pilot seating, which made the B-47 difficult for the copilot to land as well as hindered cockpit coordination, was changed to side- by-side seating in mid-1951 at LeMay's direct insistence. Boeing added inflight refueling capability and two one-thousand- gallon auxiliary tanks, provision for ECM, and improved J 57 engines. the approach chute), and pilots positioned in tandem under a bubble canopy. The B-52's entire horizontal stabilizer moved for pitch control, a de