toff with its 1-ton warhead. It required thirty-two vehicles and trailers and four to six hours to ready the device for firing (an hour and a half according to another source) and about half an hour to withdraw. Paradoxically, the larger and more compli- cated V-2 was mobile, whereas the V-1 was not. The V-2 could be launched from any small piece of firm, flat ground, while the ground-launched V-1 required a ramp and catapult. In Peenemünde tests the rocket was controlled during its powered flight by a radio-controlled device (deleted in the operational missiles because of a fear of Allied jamming but restored in the last quar- ter of production). It had a maximum range of 230 miles (if all the fuel was burnt and no engine cut-off occurred) and a nominal range of 195 miles. 27 As noted above, the British received frag- mentary information about the German's missile programs that initially confused the two programs. In June 1943 Allied photo reconnaissance of Peenemünde revealed the V-2. A year later the British were able to examine the wreckage of a missile that landed in Sweden and retrieve two tons of wreckage. While this gave the Allies some valuable information, it also led them astray. In addition to severe technical obstacles, the program encountered bureaucratic and resource problems. Hitler shifted priorities and there was infighting over control of the project. In March 1944 Wernher von Braun, a key scientist, was imprisoned by The Allies took direct action against the V-weapons program beginning with the August 1943 attack of Peenemünde. This bombing targeted the German engineers, missed the V-1 facilities, but killed a key German scientist in the V-2 program along with 178 German technicians. However, the bulk of the more than 700 killed were foreign workers and prisoners. The bomb- ing delayed the program four to six weeks. Allied bombing also knocked out the large launch sites of German V-weapons, pounded a few manufacturing plants, but mainly hit V-1 l