e is no evidence that the  CHAPTER 3 GERMAN STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT 63 system had the potential to outflank and spread out the defenses as well as extend the range of the missiles. However, the air- launched missiles had less than a third the accuracy of the ground-launched versions because the problems of He 111 night navi- gation, low-level flight, and evasion of Brit- ish fighters magnified the accuracy errors of the missile. (The Germans did deploy a radio buoy to aid the navigation of the mis- sile carriers, but this proved ineffective.) The carrier aircraft also proved very vulnerable to British night defenses. Only 388 of the air-launched missiles got to Britain, and in fact the Germans lost more carrier aircraft (seventy-seven) than the number of V-1s (sixty-six) that reached London. Certainly the British night defenses had improved greatly since1940. of seventy-one thousand tons of bombs that the Germans dropped on Britain dur- ing the entire war. Nevertheless missile accidents killed more Germans than the number attributed to these air attacks. An extensive American postwar examination of the bombing campaign concluded that the bombing probably delayed the V-1s three to four months but did not delay the V-2s. The Germans also fired 12,000V-1s against targets on the Continent, mainly at Antwerp. The city was only defended by flak that destroyed 64 percent of the 2,800 missiles that threatened the highly important port area. Only 211 missiles hit within that zone, of which 150 hit the dock area. The continental attacks killed 4,700. Duncan Sandys, chief of investigation of long-range German weapons, announced to reporters that "except for a last few shots, the Battle of London is over."25 Churchill's son-in-law spoke too soon. The Germans built between thirty thousand and thirty-five thousandV-1s, of which perhaps two-thirds were fired in anger. Clearly the Germans might have used the resources devoted to the V-1 in a better fashion. For example, the missile a