acker II, began on the night of December 18.At long last the United States had the oppor- tunity to use its air power rather freely in a major strategic effort. Operations on each of the first three nights were essentially the same, F-111s hit North Vietnamese airfields before about one hundred B-52s flying at high altitude, all on the same heading, in three separate waves, bombed targets in Hanoi and Haiphong at night. In some respects these bomber streams ("elephant walks," as they sometimes were called) resembled the World War II bombing of Germany and Japan, with one critical dif- ference; in 1972 the airmen used identical tactics, in the same area, three nights in a row. The Communists launched more than During the Vietnam War B-52s delivered huge tonnages of bombs in South Vietnam, facing no enemy opposition but achieving questionable results. In 1972 B-52s helped stop the Communist offensive (Linebacker I) and then bombed and brought the North back to the peace table (Linebacker II). Here a B-52D unloads thirty tons of bombs. (National Museum of the USAF) 1 was SAC's micromanagement from Omaha and the difficulty of coordinating a large number of bombers and support aircraft from afar. SAC headquarters was slow in getting plans to the units, and more seriously, disregarded the requests, recommendations, and protests from the field for changes. The irony is that the USAF had criticized micro- management from Washington throughout the war, yet when given its head, substituted SAC micromanagement from Omaha.5 The stiff losses forced the airmen to alter both their targets and tactics. One shift was to target the SAM sites and storage facilities, beginning on the fifth day with Navy and Air Force tactical aircraft and with B-52s on the sixth mission on December 23.6 The 223 airmen also dramatically revised tactics, for the next four nights limiting bombing to one wave of thirty B-52Ds attacking targets away from Hanoi. The airmen also changed from attempting to lay