first flew in July 1935. (The Fort's quality is evident in that it was still in front-line service over Europe a decade later alongside the younger Lancaster and Liberator.) The four-engine Boeing bomber was what the airmen were looking for, an aircraft that could fly high, fast, and far; fight off aerial defenders with its heavy armament; and deliver bombs on target. The story becomes dramatic and tragic, however, for after setting a cross- country nonstop speed record from Seattle to Dayton, the prototype was destroyed in a takeoff accident (due to pilot error) in October 1935. Instead of a hoped-for buy of sixty-five aircraft, the Air Corps got only a baker's dozen, while the Army bought a larger number of the more conservative, cheaper, and much less capable twin-engine B-18.2 Meanwhile the War Department pushed close support aircraft and restricted experimental and development funds for fiscal years 1939 and 1940 to close support aircraft. Thus between October 1935 and July 1939, the Air Corps procured only 14 heavy bombers, 13 B-17s and 1 B-15, despite requests for 206 of the former and 11 of the latter. 101 Over the years Boeing modified and improved the Flying Fortress. The first model to see combat was the B-17C, a model that replaced all but one gun with .50-caliber machine guns and added self- sealing tanks and armor. Nevertheless the B-17C proved wanting in RAF opera- tions over Europe beginning in July 1941. However, these were very useful combat trials pointing out a number of the bomber's deficiencies. The B-17D, basically the same aircraft, did no better against the Japanese early in the Pacific war. The "E" model addressed many of these shortcomings. The most visible change was a redesigned empennage with a dorsal fin that began amidships and flared into the large signature "big tail," which permitted the addition of a tail gun position and increased stabil- ity, especially at high altitudes. Boeing also added powered top and belly turrets armed wit