- ter of pride was also involved as no AAF/ USAF mission had ever been turned back by fear of losses.) as only half the "G" models had the most advanced electronic jammers. Another self-inflicted wound concerned target selection. The JCS sent SAC a target list that showed an ignorance of the B-52's strengths and weaknesses. (An alternative explanation is that the top military leaders put political considerations, hitting certain targets, above military considerations.) The Stratofort's advantages were its large bomb load and all-weather capability. However, its accuracy was measured in hundreds of feet, for the bombers were not configured to employ guided munitions, which achieved accuracies measured in tens of feet. The JCS listed airfields as a B-52 target although other attackers and fighter escort could deal with Vietnamese fighters. At the same time no effort was made to hit SAM sites or storage facilities. The costly consequences of these decisions would be clearly demon- strated during the campaign. The stereotyped tactics help explain the losses. The separation between the three waves split up the support aircraft and allowed the defenders to reload their missiles. The same course permitted the Vietnamese to anticipate the routing of the successive bombers. And the routing, which reversed direction shortly after bomb release, turned the bombers into a head wind that slowed the bombers, and that steep turn blanked out some of the ECM, rendering the bombers more vulnerable to SAMs. The B-52 crews strongly objected to the order banning evasive maneuvering on the bomb run, although that had been allowed previ- ously. (One commander threatened courts- martial for crews who took evasive action on the bomb run.) A complicating factor The air offensive, code named Linebacker II, began on the night of December 18.At long last the United States had the oppor- tunity to use its air power rather freely in a major strategic effort. Operations on each of the first three n