and that the Eighth ordered large- scale production of drop tanks. As late as the fall of 1943 Eaker allowed all P-51s to be assigned to the AAF ground support air force, and it was not until January 1944 that all incoming Mustang units were allocated 117 to the Eighth. Eventually that unit would transition all but one of its fifteen fighter groups into that aircraft.24 Luftwaffe chief, made the other key decision when he ordered GAF fighters to ignore the U.S. fighters and concentrate on battling the bombers. This handed the initiative to the American fighter pilots, who took advantage of this gift. Drop tanks were another technology that made a big difference in extending fighter range. While initially technical and safety concerns inhibited their combat use, when employed, their impact on combat was dra- matic. The Mustang's range superiority was clear from the start, demonstrating a combat radius of 475 miles without tanks (compared to the P-47's clean radius of 230 miles and the P-38's only slightly greater radius) that by March 1944 was extended to 850 miles with two 108-gallon wing tanks. The Day Battle Climax The AAF's primary mission was to win air superiority in preparation for the cross- Channel invasion. Arnold made this clear in his 1944 New Year's message to the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Force, concluding,"There- fore, my personal message to you-this is a MUST-is to, 'Destroy the Enemy Air Force wherever you find them, in the air, on the ground and in the factories."26 By the beginning of 1944 the AAF was ready to do this because its strategic bombing force was bigger, more versatile, better equipped, and using more appropriate tactics than had been the case only months earlier. Finally, two high-level decisions, one American and one German, were significant in the battle for air superiority. One of the first changes made by the new Eighth Air Force commander, Jimmy Doolittle, in January 1945 was to revoke the existing escort policy, which tied the figh