nother defensive weapon was electronic countermeasures. The AAF used Chaff for the first time in October 1943. It was effec- tive against German radars, but there were problems with production because each  CHAPTER 5 U.S. STRATEGIC BOMBING IN EUROPE the Me 110 during the Battle of Britain confirmed this view. One American's solu- tion was a "convoy escort," a large, heavily armed aircraft that flew with the formation. In the 1930s the Air Corps had experi- mented with the twin-engine XFM-1, but it had proved unacceptable. During the war the AAF modified B-17s and B-24s to an escort role by adding armament and delet- ing bombs. The XB-40 was a B-17F fitted with two additional turrets, double the guns positioned in the waist, additional armor and ammunition, all of which increased weight four to five tons and reduced flying performance. A dozen of these aircraft flew nine combat missions in May through July 1943. The AAF cancelled the project in July mainly because of the aircraft's dissimilar performance relative to the "normal" bomb- ers after they had unloaded their bombs. 13 The aircraft's chin turret, however, was a success and mounted on later AAF bombers, the B-17Gs and B-24Hs. The first of these missions was against the refineries at Ploesti, Rumania, which Allied intelligence believed supplied 60 percent of Germany's crude oil. It was one of the most daring AAF heavy bombing missions, perhaps the most thoroughly planned and prepared, yet it was undone by the friction of war. The Russians had already hit Ploesti oil targets a few ineffective times, as had Americans in an attack in June 1942. The AAF considered a high-level medium-sized attack from Syrian bases but chose instead to launch a large, minimum-altitude attack from North Africa, in stark contrast to the AAF high-altitude doctrine. Such tactics promised better bombing accuracy and the element of surprise. The airmen in Europe disliked the concept for good reason: Low-altitude oper- ations were much mo