t by the XXth Bomber Command. The object was to get bombs on selected, vital targets, but those hit from China and India were not the critical, bottleneck targets envisioned by the airmen at the ACTS. In addition, bombing accuracy was poor. A study in December 1944 estimated that in visual conditions from thirty-one thousand feet, the Superforts could get 5 percent of their bombs within one thousand feet of the aiming point, increasing to 30 percent from twenty thousand feet. Radar bombing The majority of the unit's missions were against targets that read like a tourist's  CHAPTER 6 RAZING JAPAN bomber and logistics. And it should not be forgotten that Arnold appointed Wolfe to this position in the first place, although his prowess was with aircraft development not with running a combat unit. Wolfe's suc- cessor, the hard driving Curtis LeMay, later stated that Wolfe faced "an utterly impossible situation" and had done a good job. Even LeMay could do little better. achieved a CEP of two miles, which meant that less than 1 percent of bombs fell within one thousand feet of the target. One analyst in December 1944 wrote that radar bomb- ing "can produce but insignificant strategic damage and that radar bombing can best be described as wholly indiscriminate in respect to accuracy."11 The one bright note in these operations was that Japanese defenses were weaker than those the AAF faced over Europe. The Japanese had fewer aircraft, less modern radar, and only some of their fighters could operate satisfactorily above twenty thousand feet, whereas the B-29s were designed to fly and fight at thirty thousand feet. Likewise the Japanese had fewer and less capable flak than their German allies. This, combined with the fact that the B-29 was a better bomber than those employed against the Germans, meant lower combat losses. On its first twenty-five missions the unit encoun- tered 2,200 fighters, but only 11 percent were able to attack in a coordinated manner. The Japanese downe