orality. The Air Staff believed that morale along with transport were German weak points. British experience with the bombing of London should have given the decision makers pause concerning bombing to affect morale, but that does not  CHAPTER 4 BRITISH STRATEGIC BOMBING The year 1942 was a watershed for Bomber Command. First, it turned to city busting as a strategy. Second, the unit's two major aircraft of the war, the Lancaster and Mosquito, went into service, along with a number of electronic devices that would greatly enhance the offensive bombing effort. These developments, long in the mak- ing, are overshadowed in some narratives of the bombing offensive by a third event, the arrival of Britain's most famous air leader of the war. Arthur Harris, the Personification of RAF Bombing The editor of Arthur Harris's wartime dispatches begins with the comment that "there are few more controversial figures in modern British military history than Sir Arthur Harris" and goes on to write that "perhaps only Sir Douglas Haig [of World War I] has attracted so much vilification and public hostility."5 Harris has come to personify not only the British bombing campaign of World War II but also strategic bombing. Feelings still run high regarding bombing in general and Harris in particular, as demonstrated by the 1992 protests in both Germany and Britain over the unveil- ing of a statue to Harris and a critical Cana- dian Broadcasting Corporation TV show that same year. As the most renown German historian of the air war writes, in German eyes Harris "stands for all the horrors of the bombardments and firestorms . . . [and] became the incarnation of violence."6 role in the innovations that made Bomber Command such a powerful force. In fact he opposed one of the hallmarks of British strategic bombing (the Pathfinder Force) as well as targeting precision targets that he derisively labeled "panacea targets."What he provided for more than three years was firm leadership that overcame