an only play a minor or supporting role in such wars. Other nations may, and probably will, engage in conventional wars, but aside from nuclear deterrents, none have a major strategic bombardment capability. In brief, strategic bombardment has been relegated to a deterrent role and peripheral (conven- tional) war-fighting role. Over the years strategic bombardment proponents have promised that their con- cept could win wars quickly and cheaply. Both British and Americans tested the concept in World War II, where it proved deadly and destructive but not decisive. Since then technology has greatly improved its capabilities and strategic bombardment has been employed numerous times at a considerable cost in blood and treasure. However, the shackles of inadequate intel- ligence combined with political restraints have prevented the concept from being fully employed. Complete application of strategic bombardment is only suitable in total war, which nuclear weapons have made unthink- able, at least for nuclear-armed nations. Thus the practitioners have fallen short of the theorists' vision. The record during its first century reveals that strategic bombardment is a case study of promises unfulfilled. Clearly we have entered a new era. The role of the strategic bomber, especially the manned penetrating bomber, has dimin- ished. The thousands of bombers employed in World War II and the nearly two thou- sand bombers deployed by Strategic Air Chapter 1. The Early Years through World War I While there is a considerable literature covering most aspects of air power, there are only two overall studies of strategic bombing. Lee Kennett's A History of Strategic Bombing: From the First Hot-air Balloons to Hiroshima and Nagasaki (New York: Scribner's, 1982) is especially good on the first decades but ends in 1945. R. Cargill Hall, ed., Case Studies in Strategic Bombardment (Washington, D.C .: Air Force History and Museums Program, 1998), like most collections of essays, varies in qua