rged as the best- equipped and -operated airline in Europe and was soon known as well for its extensive overseas activities. As the decade ended The reemergence of the German air force (GAF) took a longer understand- ably clandestine path. The Germans used Lufthansa flying schools as well as a secret training center at Lipetsk, Russia, to circum- vent treaty restrictions that limited them to training a mere half a dozen pilots a year. The Germans operated in Russia between the summer of 1925 and fall of 1933, train- ing personnel as well as testing tactics and aircraft. Even before the rise of Adolph Hitler, Germany had made progress toward building a first-class air force. Hitler took the wraps off of the German military and rapidly expanded it after his accession to power in January 1933. The next year he announced conscription, and in March 1935 he proclaimed the existence of the Luftwaffe. It consisted of approximately 1,800 aircraft and included 370 bombers (Do 11, Do 23, and Ju 86) along with 250 Ju 52 transports, which could also serve as bombers. The year 1935 saw other evidence of the growing GAF strength, as aircraft output increased from an average of 190 per month in the first half of the year to 300 in the last months of the year. In March 1935 the Germans were conducting final trials of a number of new fighters, dive bombers, reconnaissance air- The one major area in which the Ger- mans trailed was piston aircraft engines. The terms of the Treaty ofVersailles, the lack of raw materials, and the neglect of this field by German companies forced airframe manu- facturers to rely on imported and licensed engines. The Germans also trailed in the adoption of higher octane fuels, which increased engine power. The Dornier and Junkers Bombers During the 1930s the Dornier company dominated the development of bomber aircraft in Germany. In March 1930 the four-engine Do P first took to the air, manufactured in the Dornier factory in Switzerland in response to a 192