credit in changing the course of World War II. Finally, it is no discredit to the British people, to those who served in the air defense, particularly those "few" Fighter Command pilots, to note that the GAF did not have the edge it enjoyed in its previous victories. I concur with the view that "barring some gross and irreversible error by [Air Chief Marshal Hugh] Dowd- ing [commander of Fighter Command] and his senior commanders, the Luftwaffe could not have won the battle."14 The night bombing of Britain continued, albeit on a lesser scale. Another city martyred by bombing was Coventry. It clearly was a legitimate target because of its numerous factories, but its long history (complete with Lady Godiva and Peeping Tom) and historic buildings made it something else in the pub- lic's mind. On November 14-15, 1940, the Germans launched more than 550 aircraft at Britain, and 450 of 510 destined for Coven- try unloaded about 550 tons of bombs on the city. British defenses were weak, twenty- four heavy and twelve light antiaircraft guns and 135 sorties by a wide variety of ill suited entry bombing was its impact on public opinion. It joined the list of cities that symbolized the power, frightfulness, and immorality of strategic bombing in World War II and enhanced the impression of Hun inhumanity. The list would grow, joined by cities devastated by the Allies. Two other points are worthy of note. Coventry was studied by British Bomber Command as a test case for its operations against Germany. And although most of the city's factories were back in production within six to seven weeks and civilian morale was not seriously shaken, the British believed that similar attacks on German cities would create deci- sive results. Second, despite the conventional wisdom, there were no immediate calls from the survivors of Coventry for retaliation. The Heinkel 177 In contrast to the great German aviation success of getting a jet fighter into opera- tions before the Allies, the German