rwent a nonnuclear explosion, con- taminating the soil, and two went deep into the ocean. All were recovered after a difficult eighty-day operation. Two years later a nuclear-armed B-52 crashed and burned in an attempted emergency landing at Thule, spreading radioactive material. Airborne alert was terminated shortly after the second inci- dent. Other factors in the decision included its high cost ($.8 billion a year) along with the increased number of U.S. land- and sea- based ballistic missiles. 14 was by July 1960 to have one-third of SAC's force able to get airborne within fifteen minutes. One method to get the aircraft off in the mandated fifteen minutes was to decrease the interval between the takeoffs. Starting in 1960 B-47s were allowed to make rolling takeoffs on three-hundred- foot-wide runways in staggered (alternate sides) takeoffs with ten-second intervals between bombers and on two-hundred- foot-wide runways with twenty-second intervals. By the end of 1959 B-52s could be launched with fifteen-second intervals as long as the "F" and "G" models were not mixed with the earlier models. By July 1959 SAC had 16 percent of its force on ground alert and intended to raise this to one-quarter of the force. In 1961, however, President Kennedy ordered the ground-alert level increased to 50 percent, which SAC achieved in July of that year. Concurrently the Air Force began putting its ICBMs on alert. In April 1964 the number of ICBMs on alert equaled the number of bombers on ground alert and the growing proportion of ICBMs continued. The fifteen-minute launch goal was dif- ficult to achieve, leading to airborne alert, which SAC commander Gen. Thomas Power recommended in October 1958 (with tests the next year). The B-52s flew for twenty-four hours with the aid of two aerial refuelings. SAC proposed putting a sixteenth of the force on airborne alert, Headquarters USAF wanted one-quarter of the force on airborne alert beginning in July 1960, and the secretary of defens