t added twin guns in a dorsal turret and two hand-held beam guns.) The Stirling proved able to absorb punishment, but it was outperformed by both the Halifax and Lan- caster. The Stirling was at a great disadvan- tage because it could only operate at twelve thousand feet loaded, while the other British  CHAPTER 4 80 Series IA. Nevertheless after the fall of 1943 Bomber Command relegated the Halifax to easier targets because of increasing losses. The Halifax III mounted more powerful engines, had better performance, and went into combat in February 1944. The British built almost sixty-two hundred Halifaxes, and they delivered one-quarter of Bomber Command's total tonnage. When all is said, these bombers were not up to Bomber Command's task. The Manchester (see below) was considered a disaster, and both the Stirling and Halifax were disappointments. Fortunately the Brit- ish were able to field much more capable aircraft, bombers that could effectively carry out the RAF's plans. The Avro Lancaster The RAF's outstanding heavy bomber of World War II was the Avro Lancaster, which some will argue was the best heavy bomber of the war. (Others would award that acco- lade to the Boeing B-29.) Renowned avia- tion historian William Green writes that it was a simple, robust aircraft, ideally suited for mass production, a major factor in its suc- cess. He asserts that a great plane must have a "touch of genius which transcends the good" and "luck to be in the right place at the right time." Further, it must have above average flying qualities: "reliability, rug- gedness, and fighting ability"-and skilled crews. "All these things," he concludes, "the Lancaster had in good measure."15 Avro's Lancaster was Britain's outstanding and principal World War II heavy bomber. It was noted for having the lowest RAF heavy bomber loss rate, its large bomb load, and its ability to carry the heaviest bombs employed in the war. (National Museum of the USAF) The Lancaster story begins in 1936, whe