n may have been too crude to adjust the firings, it did correctly indicate that the impact points were mainly east and south of Tower Bridge. The Allies continued to bomb German facilities. The Allied supreme commander, Dwight Eisenhower, set the V-weapons priority as second to only the urgent requirements of the invasion. Thus the Allies bombed V-1 targets despite the protests of the American and British strategic bomber commanders and their insistence that the destruction of other targets would have greater military impact. Between June 12 and September 3 they flew twenty-six thousand sorties that dropped seventy- three thousand tons of bombs on launch sites, supply depots, and seven German factories at the cost of 197 aircraft and 1,412 aircrew. During July and August 1944 the Allies devoted one-fifth of their total heavy bomber attacks against V-weapons targets with little effect, as the V-1 launch rate did not decline. In all the airmen dropped 122,000 tons on V-1 targets on sixty-nine thousand sorties, compared with the total Intelligence was only of limited impor- tance to the Germans in the V-1 campaign because of the missile's poor accuracy. One British effort to confront the missile attack involved attempts to shift the mean point of impact six miles, which analysts calcu- lated would decrease casualties by twelve thousand per month. This deception was possible because the British had captured and turned enemy agents and fed the Ger- mans false information that the missiles were hitting beyond their aim point (the Tower Bridge), inviting the Germans to shorten the missile's range, when in fact they were already falling short. This tactic raised issues of who would live and die, a grave moral responsibility, but it appears to have had little effect because there is no evidence that the  CHAPTER 3 GERMAN STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT 63 system had the potential to outflank and spread out the defenses as well as extend the range of the missiles. However, the air- lau