G-H, which combined much of Gee and Oboe and has been described as Oboe in reverse. The bomber carried both a transmitter and receiver that employed ground stations. While its range was limited, its accuracy did not decline with distance and was about that of Oboe. It did have three disadvan- tages, however: it required a highly skilled navigator, it was limited to handling fewer than one hundred aircraft at the same time, and it could be jammed. The British initi- ated the program in July 1942, began service trials in June 1943, and started operations in October. Bomber Command did not make extensive use of G-H until the next year in daylight attacks. A fourth device was navigational radar, airborne maritime search radar adapted to overland duty. Known as H2S, it transmitted radio signals, some of which were reflected back to a cathode-ray tube that gave a general representation of the terrain.9 Radar took skill to interpret as its presentation var- ies from visual appearances, and while land- water contrasts were easiest to determine, presentations of open country (few returns) or large urban areas (massive returns) were much more difficult. Because all the radar equipment was carried aboard the bomber, it was not limited in range. Because of a lack of industrial capacity H2S experienced seri- ous production problems until after 1941, nevertheless it went into service in January 1943 and by the end of the year more than 90 percent of the command's bombers were so equipped. H2S proved to be the most useful navigation and bomb aiming device used by Bomber Command. One major 75 liability was that GAF night fighters could home in on radar emissions. unnecessary. The British commander was forced to institute a system that he bit- terly resented and described in his postwar dispatches as "yet another occasion when a Commander in the field was over-ruled at the dictation of junior staff officers in the Air Ministry."10 Instead of one Pathfinder unit, Harris wanted each g