iary stocks and thus was able to continue fire bomb- ing Japanese cities. Three strikes in April burned out twenty-two more square miles of Japanese cities and in May the B-29s fire bombed cities five times. On the twenty- fifth the Superforts hit Tokyo for the last time, 464 bombers raining 3,260 tons on Japan's capital. This destroyed nineteen square miles, the most for one mission, with the loss of twenty-six bombers, also a record. The Americans continued to fire bomb the major cities until mid-June, by which time they had destroyed 102 square miles of Japa- nese urban areas: half of Tokyo, one-third of Nagoya, over half of Kobe, and one-quarter of Osaka. The only major Japanese city not targeted was Kyoto, spared for cultural and religious reasons. On June 17 the Twentieth Air Force changed its tactics. As the campaign progressed, the B-29 force grew in size and efficiency, Japanese defense buckled, and bomber losses declined. Now the XXIst had an abundance of power and a growing shortage of targets. 145 directed .50s, which in tests proved 2.5 times as accurate as manual sighting and achieved 3 to 4 times as many hits. The unit continued to hit the few remain- ing precision targets at the same time it switched its focus to smaller cities ranging in population from 80,000 to 300,000. Each of the Twentieth's four bomb wings would attack a city at night from below ten thousand feet. Destruction was large, and resistance at these smaller cities even weaker than at the major ones. For example, on three night missions in late June the bombers destroyed fifteen square miles of builtup area at the cost of four bombers, none believed due to enemy action. As the bombers' sorties and tonnage increased, the loss rate fell from 1.9 percent in May to 0.8 percent in June, 0.4 in July, and 0.3 in August. The overall B-29 loss rate for the war was 1 percent of aircraft airborne. The unit went into action on June 26, 1945. In all the 315th flew fifteen night attacks against oil