to the Air Corps in February 1931; the Douglas XB-7 appeared slightly later. The Fokker could reach 160 mph, the Douglas 169 mph, despite open cockpits and wing struts. The XB-7 proved superior, leading the Air Corps to order seven Y1B-7s for service tests. Douglas made some minor changes, includ- ing installing 675-hp engines that pushed top speed to 182 mph. This was sixty miles per hour faster than the Keystone bombers and competitive with the Air Corps fighters of the day, as they demonstrated during the 1933 Fort Knox maneuvers, where they outran pursuing P-12s. Due to the rapid advances in bomber aircraft, the B-7 was quickly superseded and the airmen ordered no further examples. At about the same time Boeing came up with a comparable aircraft. ordered a prototype and six service test models designatedYB-9, with supercharged 600-hp engines turning three-bladed props. These improvements increased top speed to 188 mph. The airmen also bought a second version, designated Y1B-9, which was powered by liquid-cooled engines that also produced 600 hp but was 14 mph slower than the YB-9. (There is no explanation for this disparity other than a small difference in weight and props.) The Air Corps fitted five other aircraft (Y1B-9A) with the radial engines, allowing them to match the YB-9's top speed. It was defended by two machine guns and could carry twenty-two hundred pounds of bombs. The bombers now had speed comparable with the best fighters of the day. The B-9 seemingly had a bright future with the Air Corps as the airmen preferred it to the B-7 because of its greater range (540 versus 410 miles) and heavier bomb load (2,260 versus 1,200 pounds). It should be noted, however, that its engines vibrated excessively, the metal skin wrinkled, and the fuselage tended to twist. Meanwhile a more impressive aircraft put an end to Boe- ing's hopes for a large production order. The Barling appeared at several air shows in the mid-1920s, where its giant size impressed the crow