arkably short time after its 103 inception. The aircraft's major virtues were range and versatility. The Americans fitted their first bomber versions (B-24B and C) with self-sealing tanks and dorsal and tail turrets, both armed with twin .50s, and replaced the mechani- cally supercharged engines with turbo supercharged ones that led to the elliptical  CHAPTER 5 104 U.S. STRATEGIC BOMBING IN EUROPE superior to theirs [the British] and our results consequently better," Ira Eaker (com- mander of the Eighth's bombers) wrote Hap Arnold, the AAF chief prior to the first AAF strike. He added, "We can do day bombing without prohibitive losses."3 The story of American strategic bombing against Ger- many is how, despite reverses and at times heavy losses, the Eighth adapted, went on to victory, and made a significant contribution to the defeat of Germany. cowling shape that gave the Liberator its unique look. Maximum speed increased to 310 mph. The B-24D was the first large- scale production version with thirty-seven hundred built. In short order the AAF modified the "D" to carry ten .50s (the last versions including a retractable "ball" tur- ret) and a maximum bomb load of 12,800 pounds. Thirteen B-24Ds made the first AAF heavy bomber attack in Europe with a strike on the Ploesti oil fields in June 1942. None were downed, although only seven landed as planned in Iraq, while two made it to Syria, one crash landed, and four were interned in Turkey. The Libs flew their first combat mission from Britain in Octo- ber 1942. Their numbers grew so that for most of the war it made up one-third of the Eighth Air Force's (the AAF's strategic bombing unit in northern Europe) bombers and outnumbered the Forts in bomber units in the Mediterranean and Pacific theaters. The B-24G and successive models were armed with a nose turret mounting twin .50s. More "J" models were built (sixty- seven hundred) than any other version. The Mighty Eighth In early 1942 the AAF established the Eighth Air F