orce cancelled the original tail gun system. In its place Boeing installed on the first 300 B-47Bs twin .50s fitted with radar warning but without radar gun laying and therefore capable of only harassing, not aimed, fire. Fuel boil off and purging presented prob- lems along with leaking fuel tanks. Despite these problems production continued and the bomber was deployed to Great Britain in June 1953. Between that date and early 1958 the USAF kept at least one Stratojet wing based in England. The "B" model addressed some of these issues. Boeing replaced the J 35 engines with higher power J 47s and mounted twin guns in an unmanned radar-directed tail turret. However, in a backward step pilot ejection seats were deleted, over strenuous SAC objections after an inflight canopy accident killed a pilot, in the belief that they were only marginally effective and to cut weight.6 Boeing added vortex generators7 that made handling more effective, two large external tanks, and air-to-air refueling capability. The four hundredth B-47 built featured ejection seats8 and improved engines, a version designated B-47E. Later in the run the company added water-alcohol injec- tion, which boosted engine power 25 to 33 percent, and strengthened the landing gear to allow greater operating weights (fourteen tons), which boosted combat radius to 2,050 nm, 300 more miles than the early "E" models. Defensive capabilities improved with the substitution of 20-mm guns for the .50s and the addition of radar track- ing. More visible, the USAF replaced the internal rocket assist system for takeoff with an external horse collar that could be jet- tisoned. This increased power freed up inter- nal space for twelve hundred more gallons of fuel and meant that the bomber did not have to carry twenty-two hundred pounds of rocket bottles for the entire flight. But as with so many other aspects of the bomber, the new device brought new problems. If Tests of the B-47B between August 1951 and April 1952 demonst