cted 11 percent of their strike sorties and 17 percent of their PGMs against strategic targets. In contrast to the overwhelming and unqualified suc- cess of the tactical bombing, these strategic attacks played essentially no role in the out- come of the war. In military terms the oil and electric attacks were efficient but had little impact, attacks on leadership harassed the Iraqis but did little more, and the efforts against the NBC and Scud targets were ineffective. In response strategic bombard- ment advocates argue that the war ended before the strategic effect could be felt and that the political impact of the strategic bombing was crucial on the Iraqi, Israeli, and coalition governments and their popula- tions. The great success of air power in the There are two final points to be consid- ered. First, in contrast to the brilliant perfor- mance of air power technology, the absence of the B-1 was conspicuous. (The most circulated explanation is that the bomber was not certified for conventional bomb delivery, and in any case was unneeded. While undoubtedly true, the aircraft was also experiencing serious technical problems at this time.) Second, the overwhelming vic- tory and technological triumph that almost resulted in air power winning the war alone also demonstrated strategic bombardment's limitations, underscoring most clearly the importance of good intelligence. The Northrop B-2 Spirit Another American bomber that did not see action in the 1991 Gulf War was the Northrop B-2 Spirit. At first glance the B-2 appears to be the result of Northrop mating stealth technology to its earlier B-49 design as both aircraft feature a tailless, (Right) The most expensive and possibly the last USAF strategic bomber is the B-2A Spirit. It looks like Northrop's two prior failed flying wings, but with the new stealth technology it has superior combat performance compared with existing bombers. This view reveals the bomber's distinctive double "W" trailing edge and unusual p