1934 the chief of the Air Corps authorized negotia- tions with Boeing and Martin for designs for such a machine with the stated mission of destroying distant land or naval targets and reinforcing Hawaii, Panama, and Alaska. In June 1934 Boeing won a contract that led to an order for one aircraft. Originally designated XBLR-1 (experi- mental long-range bomber), the aircraft was redesignated XB-15 before its initial flight in October 1937. It had taken three and a half years to get the giant into the sky, at this point the largest and heaviest American aircraft to fly. Following tests at Dayton it made a number of notable flights ferrying medical supplies to Chile and setting a number of records. Similar to the Barling bomber, the XB-15 was large, underpow- ered, and lacking in flying performance . . . and only one of each was built. Probably its chief claim to fame was its size; its 149-foot wing span was longer than the World War II B-29s (141 feet) and the huge wing permit- ted inflight inspection and maintenance of the engines.6 It was initially defended by three .30-caliber and three .50-caliber guns mounted in manually operated gun posi- tions, could carry a maximum of six tons of bombs, and with a ton of bombs could fly thirty-four hundred miles. However, the aircraft fell short of the range requirement, 29 was heavy on the controls, and was hard to handle. In Curtis LeMay's words, "It was a brute of an airplane to fly"7 The big plane was overshadowed by more practical (and smaller) types that fought in World War II. One author wrote, "The story of the XB-15 is one of high hopes, disappoint- ment, quiet accomplishment, and finally unmerited consignment to oblivion."8 Another concluded that the B-15 was "born out of despair, raised on a succession of bad breaks, and cheated by time."9 These statements are a mixture of romanticism and rhetoric, hyperbole and fact. Less poetic but more to the point, the B-15 was just too ambitious for the technology of the day (sp