first flew in May 1980 and became operational in December 1983. In 1987 the Americans and Soviets agreed to the Intermediate- range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, which banned nuclear weapons with ranges between 260 and 1,840 nm from Europe. In April 1988 the United States began with- drawing both the Pershing II and GLCM as the Russians withdrew their SS-20.  258 MISSIL Minuteman and Peacekeeper The Air Force also made use of the new solid-fuel propulsion technology. While the Navy began its effort in 1956, formal devel- opment of the Minuteman program did not begin until February 1958 with a small $50 million research project. Neverthe- less, progress was swift as the missile made its first flight in February 1961, flawlessly flying forty-six hundred miles and making impact in the target zone. In October 1962, at the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis, ten Minuteman missiles were on alert. The Air Force developed and deployed three versions of the Minuteman, all built by Boeing, all solid fueled, and all three-stage missiles. They made good use of the improv- ing technology, growing but 10 percent in length and 20 percent in weight yet gaining markedly better performance. (Minuteman was appreciably more effective than either Atlas or Titan.)15 Minuteman I encountered some first-stage technical problems with its nozzles reducing its range from sixty-three hundred to forty-three hundred nauti- cal miles. As a consequence the Air Force based these missiles, designated IA, farther north16 and at the higher elevations and latitudes in Montana and North Dakota to somewhat compensate for the decreased range. (Later Minutemen were based as far south as Missouri.) The IA version became The U.S. Air Force also deployed a nuclear- armed ground-launched cruise missile version of the U.S. Navy's Tomahawk. The missile was deployed briefly to Europe until arms reduction agreements in the late 1980s led to its withdrawal and destruction. (USAF) The three-stage Boeing Minuteman went o