reased losses (less distraction on bomb runs and increased experience) and from navigational aids moved forward with the advance of the ground troops that extended Britain's range into Germany. New marking tactics employing a very low-level visual delivery, the use of the "master bomber," and lower bombing altitudes were other factors. At the same time targets had changed. Whereas Bomber Command had been pounding German cities with area bomb- ing prior to the Normandy invasion, now it aimed at three other target systems: oil, transportation, and a "final concentrated and catastrophic blow against morale."30 There was also a greater proportion of bomber effort against targets in Germany. But Har- ris again went his own way, for despite directives, Bomber Command devoted two-thirds of its effort in October against area targets as Harris stubbornly sent "his" bombers against German cities. As in the case of ball bearings (see chapter 5), Harris fought his own war regardless of his orders. And while his superiors considered replac- ing him, one author states that the British air chief, Charles Portal, had sufficient cause to fire Harris three times in 1944, at this stage in the war that was not a viable option. The final phase of the war saw the ever more powerful Anglo-American bombers pound Germany relentlessly as the Luftwaffe became increasingly impotent. Bomber Command dropped two-fifths of its total tonnage after September 17, 1944. Dresden For some time the planners had been con- sidering a massive attack on German civilian targets. In response to the German V-1 attacks, the Allies considered a major Anglo- American attack on Berlin, and as early as August 1944 the British chiefs of staff discussed hitting morale to knock Germany out of the war. Close examination of an operation called Thunderclap concluded it was unlikely to succeed at the time, but that the option should remain open. In October the airmen considered a major daylight strategic and tactical air e