en days later Dresden was destroyed. it contained war industries and was a communications hub. The substantial death and destruction in Dresden resulted from a lack of air defenses, little previous damage, inadequate air raid protection, and weather, all of which combined to create a "perfect storm."This was what Bomber Command attempted to do on every raid but accom- plished only here and at Hamburg in 1943. (The fickleness of the situation is seen in the Allied attack on Chemnitz days later by more than seven hundred bombers, which dropped over thirteen hundred tons yet caused little damage at the cost of twenty- three bombers compared with eight lost against Dresden.) Dresden had a prewar population of six hundred thousand, now swollen by crowds of refugees. Bomber Command launched more than eight hundred bombers against the city on February 13, followed by three hundred AAF day bombers on the fourteenth, more than two hundred on the fifteenth, and four hundred on March 2.The British night attack was the most destructive of these strikes and has become, along with the two Japanese atomic bombings, the most infamous bombing attacks in history. This status resulted from the wide-scale destruc- tion (over thirteen square miles), a high death toll (between twenty-five thousand and forty thousand), along with the city's beauty ("Florence on the Elbe"), stoked by an Allied press account that cleared the mili- tary censors, and fed by wartime Nazi and postwar Communist propaganda that pro- duced a legend of Allied war crimes. (The myth includes such distortions as a death toll of two hundred thousand and allegations of AAF fighters strafing civilians.) In fact Dres- den was a legitimate military target because The result was a major uproar that resounded in the American and British press and in the House of Commons. Churchill composed a message for the British chiefs of staff that the "bombing of German cities simply for the sake of increasing the terror . . should be r