recision bombing. Changing Views on How to Fight in the Pacific Theater When war erupted in Europe, airmen thinking about the Pacific problem thought in terms of the American strategic bombers as a deterrent. In September 1939 Lt. Col. Carl Spaatz sent a paper to Hap Arnold that proposed dispatching heavy bomber groups to the Philippines which he believed would restrain Japan from interfering with U.S. national interests. But the United States had few bombers and few bases, and its focus centered on Europe. In early 1940 Claire Chennault, a fighter plane advocate now serving the struggling Chinese, wrote Arnold about the potential of incendiaries against Japanese cities. The Air Corps chief rejected this idea, championing the virtues of precision bombing and insisting that U.S. national policy was against the use of incen- diaries. This did not discourage Chennault, who recommended a force of five hundred bombers crewed by Americans to "burn out the industrial heart of the Empire with fire-bomb attacks on the teeming bamboo ant heaps of Honshu and Kyushu."7 While the American airmen rejected Chennault's proposals, President Roosevelt was more receptive and ordered a top-level investi- gation of the concept, an action in sharp Deterrence became the American military policy in the Pacific by neces- sity because it was considered a secondary theater and because of inadequate American military forces. In the spring of 1940 the United States left the fleet in Hawaii as a deterrent, instead of returning it to the West Coast as had been the pattern. This move did not deter the Japanese but encouraged them to attack Pearl Harbor. To be clear, the root cause of the American-Japanese conflict was the continuing Japanese war in China. After Japanese actions led to a complete American trade embargo, they were faced with either ending the war with China without victory or seizing the resources they required. The Japanese bet on a wider war and the lack of American will for victo