fourth airframe for static tests) with the first to be delivered by March 1941. In the event the Boeing design failed, the airmen also awarded Consolidated a contract for the B-32 (see below). The design the airmen finally bought in 1940 was a considerable change from the B-17. The bomber featured tricycle landing gear, a high-aspect-ratio wing, and giant flaps to lower takeoff and landing speeds. Although the Superfortress was larger and twice the weight of the Fort, its perfor- mance was markedly superior because it had the same drag as the B-17 and 83 percent more engine power. Defensive armament was also greater, with four turrets (two atop and two beneath the bomber), each with two .50-caliber machine guns and a tail position mounting twin .50s and a single 20-mm cannon. The Superfort introduced three signifi- cant innovations into strategic bombers. The first was to add a flight engineer, who despite the protests of pilots who were con- cerned about not having full instrumenta- tion at their position, greatly aided in flying this large and complex aircraft. A second major improvement was cabin pressuriza- tion, which allowed the crew to operate at altitude without oxygen masks. The third innovation was the gunnery system: four turrets remotely controlled by gunners posi- tioned in sighting blisters. Besides improving streamlining this system removed the gunner from the noise and vibration of the firing and allowed the master gunner to switch control of the turrets among the gunners, Engines were the bomber's most serious problem and would dog it throughout its service. The Wright R 3350 was the most powerful engine available in 1940, put into production before its problems were solved, pushing these difficulties into the field. Rap- idly expanding production added quality- control and schedule issues. The major technical issue involved inadequate engine cooling, partially a result of engine design and a tight engine cowling. The airmen employed a number of eff