rface-to-air missiles rendered such tactics problematic, mandating a transition to low and fast. The overall environment was laid out by the April 1957 British white paper that held that manned aircraft were obsolete and the future belonged to ballistic missiles for offensive and surface-to-air mis- siles for defensive needs. not enough of a challenge, the government overruled the project team and forced them to use an engine they did not want. One consequence of this arrangement was that initially the bomber's engine did not fit into the airframe! To complicate matters further, the out-of-power Labor Party took on the aircraft as a political issue, and as the only RAF combat aircraft under development, the TSR.2 became the focus of media attention. The TSR.2 had a long fuselage and rela- tively small, delta-shaped wing with down- turned wing tips, along with a conventional empennage. It was powered by twin afterburning engines and crewed by two men seated in tandem. The TSR.2 made its first flight in September 1964 and went supersonic the next February. The bomber encountered problems with its landing gear, air conditioning, and especially with its engines. Although the British intended to buy one hundred of the advanced bombers, in April 1965 the project was cancelled. The most visible factors in this decision were high costs and the opportunity to buy the General Dynamic F-111 at half the price. Other factors in the aircraft's demise were engine problems, delays, the competition with the Royal Navy's Buccaneer and Polaris missile, and the election of the oppo- sition Labor Party in October 1964, which favored buying American aircraft rather than developing British ones. In February 1966 the RAF ordered fifty F-111Ks, but two years later it cancelled this contract. The TSR.2 was the last all-British bomber and marked the end of the independent British military aviation industry, a sore point to some Britons to this day. Nevertheless, in the late 1950s a require- m