ships. German attacks on Britain provoked a public and political outcry that the British military could not resist. Trenchard appeared before the British Cabinet in June 1917, where he rejected politicians' call for an airborne defensive patrol belt and instead argued for a ground offensive in Belgium to seize the Gotha bases. Trenchard's next suggestion was to attack the German airfields. The British airman saw retalia- tory attacks as both counterproductive (the Germans would respond) and impractical Between July 1916 and April 1917 the Royal Naval Air Service launched eighteen attacks against targets behind German lines, some flown along with French aircraft. These operations were hampered by weather, The Handley Page 0/100 first flew in December 1915 and became Britain's night strategic bombing mainstay. Its 1-ton bomb load was fitted in an enclosed bomb bay. One of its unique characteristics was its folding wings, which permitted it to use existing hangars. (San Diego Air and Space Museum) (the British lacked suitable aircraft). Public pressure forced the government to react and therefore recall some units from France and divert new aircraft to home defense. The prime minister also formed a com- mittee, consisting of himself and South African general Jan Smuts, to investigate British air policy. This led to a separate and coequal Air Ministry. Smuts's second report also observed that aircraft were capable of independent operations against the enemy's heartland. On April 1, 1918, the Royal Air Force was formed. The push for an offensive air force gained momentum fueled by political pressure, the 15 Smuts report, and the anticipated surplus of aircraft. The British adopted a policy of retaliation to satisfy the British public and undermine enemy morale, although the British field commanders thought morale bombing was irrelevant and reprisal attacks had to be carefully considered. The French were restricted by their aircraft and adopted a practical concept well wi