was now directly engaged in the war. Within a week the Soviets backed down in the face of overwhelming American strategic and local tactical superiority and agreed to withdraw their missiles and medium bombers from Cuba.1 In turn the United States pledged not to invade Cuba and shortly withdrew similar missiles from Europe. We now know matters were even worse than believed at the time as the Soviets had already deployed nuclear warheads to the island and had given local commanders the authority to use them. This was the most visible impact of strategic bombardment on world events in the Cold War. The Cuban Missile Crisis scared both powers, led to the "hot line" and the above-ground nuclear test ban treaty, and drew a line that prohibited similar provocative situations in the future. Vietnam The goals of American intervention were unclear. Certainly they did not include a military victory over the North Vietnamese or an overthrow of that regime; this was not The second event took place a half a world away. The U.S. military built up its forces during the 1950s, reequipped with more  us ock CHAPTER 9 216 THE 1960S AND 1970S to be a total war akin to the "last good war," World War II. Apparently one objective was to show the Communist that military actions could not win, that wars of national liberation (the Communist catch phrase of the day) and guerrilla war tactics could be defeated. At the same time American leaders wanted to avoid a larger confrontation. In brief, then, the goals were negative: not to lose and not to get into a larger conflict. Throughout there was a difference between the objectives sought by the military leaders, who wanted to undermine Communist capacity for war, and the civilian leaders, who wanted to influence North Vietnamese leadership to end their aid to the insurgents in the south. The objectives of the bombing campaign were set out in a March 1965 memo from Assistant Secretary of Defense John McNaughton to Secretary of Defense Robert Mc