M, but the 2,500 missile buy was reduced at the end of the Cold War to 460. In March 2007 the Air Force announced it was retiring the missile. The Tomahawk had wide service. The Navy deployed three versions, antishipping, conventional ground attack, and a nuclear- armed missile deployed aboard both surface ships and submarines. The antiship version became operational in March 1983, while the land-attack version entered service in 1986. As the Air Force and Navy cruise missiles are powered by the same engine and weigh about the same, they have essen- tially the same flying performance. The nuclear-armed Tomahawk became opera- tional in 1984 and was taken out of service by September 1991. The Air Force developed other versions of its cruise missile, one conventionally armed (AGM-86C) and guided by the satellite-based global positioning system (GPS) that saw action in the 1991 Gulf War and the other a stealth version, the AGM-129, known as the advanced cruise missile (ACM). The latter had greater range, less radar cross-section (RCS), and higher cost than the AGM-86B. Studies began in 1982, and GD won the contract the follow- ing year. The AGM-129 endured techni- cal and managerial difficulties that delayed schedules, problems attributed to General Dynamics. The missile made its maiden flight in July 1985 but was not delivered to the USAF until June 1990. While essentially the same size as the AGM-86B, the ACM is The GD missile also served with the Air Force. For political (reassuring NATO allies) and military (countering Soviet nuclear missiles) reasons the United States deployed the nuclear-armed Pershing II ballistic missile and ground-launched cruise missile to Europe. The GLCM was a Toma- hawk, known to the Air Force as Gryphon, mounted in sets of four on a truck. It first flew in May 1980 and became operational in December 1983. In 1987 the Americans and Soviets agreed to the Intermediate- range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, which banned nuclear weapons with range