January 1965. The Navy pushed schedule above all else and willingly accepting lower performance, fearing an Air Force takeover of all missile weapons. Sputnik accelerated the timetable. 634 The breakthrough that pushed the U.S. Navy into a primary strategic bombardment role was the mating of ballistic missiles with nuclear-powered submarines. Here the USS Stonewall Jackson is loaded with Polaris missiles. It was armed with sixteen Polaris ballistic missiles that could be launched when the submarine was submerged. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) The Navy faced two technical challenges, the ballistic missile and the submarine launch platform. The latter employing nuclear technology had already been suc- cessfully tested. To speed the process the Navy did not develop a special submarine for the missile, instead they cut an existing boat (the Scorpion) in two and inserted a 130-foot section to accommodate sixteen missiles. The Navy launched the renamed George Washington in June 1959 and declared it operational in July 1960. The first fleet ballistic submarine designed from the keel up was the Ethan Allen, which became operational in June 1962. The Navy built five boats in each of these two classes. The Navy left the Jupiter program in September 1956, correctly evaluat- ing the danger of liquid-fueled missiles aboard naval vessels, to pursue a new and safer missile technology, solid fuels, which became a viable option in 1955. The next year the Navy began development of its solid-fueled ballistic missile program geared for submerged submarine launch. (An October 1956 study group concluded that a 30,000-pound missile could reach fifteen hundred nautical miles.) This weapon faced a number of serious challenges, the first from those within the Navy who opposed the new weapon as it threatened the Navy's successful World War II way of fighting wars with carrier-based aviation, surface forces, and submarines. The appointment of Adm. Submarine navigation was critical to th