d flying wings, but with the new stealth technology it has superior combat performance compared with existing bombers. This view reveals the bomber's distinctive double "W" trailing edge and unusual placement of the engine inlets and exhausts. (National Museum of the USAF) flying-wing configuration with literally the same 172-foot wing span. The company firmly rejects this notion. One major dif- ference between the two and the earlier aircraft's flying problems and the latter's benign handling was the perfection of the fly-by-wire computer flight control system. The result is an aircraft that looks like no other. The major advantage of the design is its very low RCS, which is not based on the flat panel faceting of the F-117 but on smooth, curved lines blending the fuselage 291 with the wing, the absence of verticals, and the use of composite materials and RAM. The bomber decreased RCS with engine intakes mounted atop the wing and a quar- ter of the way aft of the leading edge and decreased infrared emissions with its engine exhausts atop the wing and a quarter of the way forward of the trailing edge. The aircraft's IR signature is further reduced by mixing the engine exhaust with the air flow over the wing and using special IR-absor- bent paints. Four non-afterburning engines  292 CHAPTER 11 STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT INTO THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY new production methods, and LPI (low probability of intercept) radar.17 Another factor that adds cost is the requirement of the avionics and stealth equipment for special maintenance buildings, and high secrecy reputedly added 10 to 15 percent to the cost and delays of eighteen to twenty- four months. Further, to reduce risk the aircraft went through extensive testing that cost both time and money. Flying tests went well, although apparently there were problems with the offensive avionics, elec- trical, and escape systems. The RCS tests presented the greatest difficulties, however; the decision makers decided that with the bre