e missile's airworthiness. Northrop installed an inertial navigation system moni- tored by stellar navigation, which it claimed could achieve a 1.4-nm CEP to meet the major challenge, accurate guidance over intercontinental distances. Nevertheless the USAF put the missile on alert in March 1960. Snark's service was brief, for in March 1961, shortly after taking office, the new president ordered its immediate phase-out and in June the USAF deactivated the Snark unit. Although the task of adapting aircraft technology (airframe and engine) would seem much easier than developing the ballistic missile, it was not. In the end the rapid development of ballistic missiles coupled with the slow and troubled development of the cruise missile spelled the end of the Snark Meanwhile the Air Force increased the requirements, which considerably compli- cated the project. The USAF now wanted a missile able to reach a supersonic speed at the end of a 5,500-nm mission and achieve a .25-nm CEP.3 This required Northrop to redesign the missile, and although it looked like the original, takeoff weight rose from twenty-eight thousand to forty-nine thou- sand pounds. There were numerous troubles Meanwhile the Air Force was developing a more ambitious cruise missile. In July 1947 the airmen added to their missile program a fifteen-hundred-mile, supersonic ramjet missile, which was to follow the subsonic Snark into service. A scaled-down test version (X-10), powered by two turbojets, first flew in October 1953. It was radio (Right) The shorter range Martin Matador was more successful than the Snark. Also powered by a turbojet, it could reach 620 miles at a top speed of 650 mph. The Matador, shown here dropping its booster rocket after launch, and its derivative, the Mace, served in the European and Pacific theaters between 1959 and 1969. (USAF) controlled and recoverable, and it featured a canard and delta wing. On twenty-seven flights it reached a top speed of Mach 2.05. The follow-on full-s