stances non- visual bombing (radar in 5/10s visibility or Gee-H) had a CEP of one mile, while visual bombing under the best circumstances (good to fair visibility) had a CEP of about one-third mile; however, radar bombing in the worst conditions averaged a CEP of about four miles, and visual bombing in poor visibility averaged four-fifths of a mile. Only 14 to 20 percent of the Eighth's bombs fell within one thousand feet of the aiming point. While this was daylight bombing, it certainly was not precision bombing. Blind bombing, a term that some of the airmen detested, allowed the AAF to operate on days that would not permit visual, precision bombing. Thus the pressure on the Germans was maintained. While the Allies had strict restrictions on bombing in the occupied countries, these did not apply to Germany. As a result operations in the first quarter of the year increased from eighteen days in 1943 to fifty-two in 1944 and sixty-seven in 1945. The common view was that it was better to bomb, even if less accurately, than to stay on the ground. A comparison of the AAF and RAF bombing offensives is difficult to evaluate because it depends on a number of variables. Bomber Command's accuracy also improved from April 1943, when it got 30 percent of its bombs within three miles of the aiming point, to April 1945, when it got 90 percent within that distance. AAF visual bombing was more accurate than RAF night bomb- ing, but the RAF bombing was more accu- rate than AAF nonvisual bombing.32 Other AAF Innovations Although shuttle missions between Britain and the Mediterranean proved impractical, similar missions to the Soviet Union went ahead. Russian bases would make bombing of Eastern Europe much easier, extend the bombers' radius of action, spread German defenses, and, perhaps most important, might lead to the use of Siberian bases in the Pacific war. Difficult negotiations 123 and primitive infrastructure hindered the operation aptly code named Frantic. On June 2, 1944, G