r featured a variable geom- etry wing, a blended wing and fuselage, and would be the first large Soviet aircraft to employ fly-by-wire controls. Tupolev considered a number of different configura- tions for the four engines, before adopting pairs mounted under the wing. The Soviets put the bomber into production prior to its first flight in December 1981. The sleek aircraft first went supersonic in February 1982, deliveries began in April 1987, and it entered service the next month. The Soviets authorized building one hundred in 1985, but production stopped at thirty-five when the Communist state imploded. The Tu-160 was not only spurred by the B-1 bomber but also ended up looking very much like it. The American bomber was the first into the air (1974 versus 1981), was cancelled in 1977, but then was revived as the B-1B, which flew for the first time in 1983. There are, of course, major differences between the two. Whereas the United States built one hundred, the Russians built only thirty-five. (The B-1 is discussed below.) The Russian bomber has variable geometry intakes and more powerful engines, and is heavier, larger, and faster than its counter- part.38 There is some dispute over which has the smallest radar signature. The Tu-160 is a huge aircraft, the heavi- est combat aircraft of them all, yet it is said to be easier to fly than the Tu-22M.The Russian bomber has a crew of four and was to be armed with (Kh-45) ballistic missiles, two carried internally and the ability to carry two more externally. However, the American development of cruise missiles (AGM-86B) pushed the Russian designers to reconfigure the bomber to carry six to twelve Kh-55 cruise missiles in one or two rotary launchers or, as an alternative, twelve to twenty-four Kh-15 short-range bal- listic missiles. Defensive armament initially was to consist of a tail turret mounting a six-barreled 30-mm cannon, but this was displaced by a radar warning device, ECM, and a Chaff and flare dispenser. The