se (222 to 218) in February 1995 and by a National Intelligence Estimate in November that stated that aside from the declared nuclear powers, there was no ICBM threat against the United States over the next fifteen years. And just as the Clinton admin- istration attempted to soothe these fears in 1998, two events changed the dynamic. First, a blue-ribbon congressional study group (the Rumsfeld commission) faulted American intelligence on its appreciation of the missile threat and posited a much greater threat by "rogue nations" to the United States. (It claimed that such a nation could field an ICBM within five years of making such a decision.) Less than two months later a sec- ond event lent credibility to these findings. On the last day in August the impoverished, isolated, and presumably technologically backward North Koreans test fired a three- stage missile that some believed had a range of thirty-seven hundred miles, which would put Alaska and Hawaii, and when lightly loaded, the western United States, at risk. The ramifications from this test were widespread. Internationally this missile shot galvanized the Japanese to join BMD research with the United States, a position the Taiwan government wanted to follow. The domestic politics forced the Clinton administration to increase BMD spend- ing and seek changes in the ABM treaty to permit a restricted national missile defense (NMD). In September 1999 U.S. intel- ligence, following the pessimistic guidelines used in the Rumsfeld report (emphasizing what could happen, not what was likely), stated that within the next fifteen years the United States faced an ICBM threat from the Russians, Chinese, Iranians, North Koreans, and possibly the Iraqis. In 1999 Congress passed legislation that called for deployment of BMD when it became technically feasible, a measure reluctantly signed by President Clinton. The George W. Bush administration went further, abro- gating the ABM Treaty in June 2002 and authorizing deployment