sions during the rest of the year encoun- tered weather problems. The bombing of Japan differed con- siderably from the bombing of Germany. Distances were much greater, about two and half times that of the average flown against Germany. Most of this was over water, which made navigation more difficult, as did less weather information than was available in the European campaign. The third major obstacle was that the Superfort was not fully developed and was operating at weights 7.5 tons over its design limit. In addition, the crews were marginally trained and had minimal flying experience. High noncom- bat losses ensued. The Americans scheduled the first strike on Japan from the island bases as a joint AAF-Navy operation for November 10, 1944, but Navy problems nixed this plan. To compound Hansell's problems, foul weather lashed the islands, forcing the airmen to cancel the mission on November 17 and attempts over the next five days. It was not until November 24 that the bombers of the XXIst Bomber Command headed north for the land of the rising sun. The 73rd's commander led 110 Super- forts on the first mission. The pattern the AAF followed during these early attacks was to fly at two thousand feet until about 250 miles from Japan, where they climbed to their bombing altitude of twenty- seven thousand to thirty-three thousand feet, where they usually met high winds and clouds. Thus only twenty-four B-29s unloaded their bombs on the primary target while forty-eight dropped on secondary targets, all with poor results. The Japanese defenders launched about 125 fighters to meet the Superforts and made over 180 attacks, but they downed only one bomber, an unintentional collision according to the Americans. Another bomber ran out of fuel and ditched twenty-five miles short of the runway. The bad news was the problems with winds and clouds, poor bombing results, and fuel problems; the good news was the weak Japanese defenses, which were to characterize the high-level dayli