osing that gap. to build an ABM system, according to two American secretaries of defense, spending two and a half to four times as much money in this pursuit as the United States. In the June 1967 Glassboro meeting between the heads of the Soviet Union and United States, President Lyndon Johnson attempted to cut a deal to limit defensive weapons in order to avoid an arms race, to which the Soviet premier heatedly responded, "Defense is moral, offense is immoral!"24 As a consequence the president decided to approve ABM development. The push for BMD responded to the changed international situation. Although the United States faced a diminished threat from the Russians, fears of an accidental or unauthorized missile attack or an attack by another state persisted. This was fueled by the proliferation of both nuclear and missile technology to countries unrestrained by either the discipline of the Cold War or the international community. The menace of ballistic missiles to civilians was highlighted in the 1991 Gulf War Scud campaign. The success and limitations of the Patriot mis- sile in that conflict gave new life to BMD. In 1991 President George H. W. Bush redirected SDI on three paths: defense of a theater forces, defense of the homeland, and a space-based defense. Congress lent further impetus to BMD when in November it overwhelmingly passed the Missile Defense Act of 1991. First, it wanted the deploy- ment of a treaty compliant BMD to protect against limited threats when the technology was available or by fiscal year 1996. Second, it wanted the ABM treaty amended to permit deployment of more ground-based interceptors and space-based sensors. Under the next president, BMD was cut, and the first direction given priority. The new Republican administration also favored ABM, albeit in a scaled-down and renamed version (Sentinel became Safeguard). The system encountered fierce domestic opposition, winning Senate approval only with a tie-breaking vote of the vice president