seless. The standard British .303-caliber machine-gun ammunition proved ineffective, leading to the invention of incendiary bullets that could ignite the hydrogen. These went into action in the summer of 1916 and became the best fighter weapon.5 The Germans defended the zeppelins with machine guns mounted on the top of the craft and in the gondolas beneath it. Until the last year of the war the airships carried eight or more machine guns, which then were reduced to two or none to lighten the craft and gain additional altitude. The new weapon forced the British to field new defenses. The major problem for home defense was that the western front enjoyed top priority on artillery pieces, aircraft, and personnel. One result was to employ, in the words of one officer, the "deaf, the blind and the mentally deficient."4 In a similar manner, gun tubes and first-line aircraft were desperately needed in France, which left only obsolete equipment at home. Luck and visibility seemed to be the most important factors in the defender's suc- cess or failure. A Belgian-based British naval aviator downed the first airship in aerial combat in June 1915, and British gunners at Dover downed their first zeppelin that August with a 3-inch shell. The airship fell into the English Channel and, although a Ger- man destroyer towed the downed craft to The British deployed ground observers, who visually and aurally detected the aircraft and reported their position. The first tech- nological aids they received employed two  MIUs caps lock 6 THE EARLY YEARS THROUGH WORLD WAR I altitude. To gain height the Germans ruth- lessly cut weight in both new construction and existing airships. They removed the sixth engine, got rid of all the guns, cut the fuel and bomb load, and used lighter hull girders. German priorities are clearly seen in their decision to remove parachutes that had been carried for a brief time in 1917, saving about eighteen pounds per man. The manufacturer tightly doped the outer co