ncentration of bombs, along with the high temperatures and low humidity led to a firestorm that quickly got out of control. The rising hot air drew in oxygen and fanned the flames, created extremely high temperatures, and allowed the fires to spread with incredible speed. (In addition, there was a lack of water within the city and German fire equip- ment was on the other side of the river fighting the fires from the previous attacks.) The destruction and death were staggering. Some forty thousand died, and by nightfall 1.2 million had evacuated the city. The Ger- mans downed seventeen bombers. But Hamburg's ordeal was not over. Mosquitoes raided Hamburg on the night of the twenty-eighth, and Bomber Com- mand hit the city with a third major attack on the night of the twenty-ninth, this time launching 777 bombers, of which 238 got their bombs within three miles of the aim- ing point. The attackers lost 30 bombers, 4.3 percent of the 699 crews that claimed to have bombed the target. The RAF hit the city again on the night of August 2, dis- patching 740 bombers, 30 of which failed to return. Bad weather en route caused a num- ber of crews to turn back short of the target, while clouds over the target, the absence of moonlight, and rain reduced visibility to zero, rendering the bombing ineffective. The attack was an anticlimax. The Hamburg attacks were an impres- sive victory for Bomber Command. It dispatched 3,095 bombers on the four major attacks and dropped almost nine thousand tons of munitions, about half incendiaries. The unit lost 86 bombers (2.8 percent of those launched), and another 174 were damaged. In this way the bombers suffered lower casualties than they had in the campaign against the Ruhr, much to the credit of Window. The damage inflicted was unparalleled up to this point in the war. Photo reconnaissance on August 1 revealed that the bombing heavily damaged sixty- two hundred acres of residential area (74 percent of the city's residential districts) and