ctiveness19 and although Congress favored buried trench or shelter basing. Therefore the president appointed a government group (the Scowcroft Com- mission) to study the matter, which in April 1983 recommended the immediate deploy- ment of one hundred MXs into resized Minuteman III silos. In addition it called for acceleration of work on an ABM and other strategic offensive systems (ALCM, Trident, and bombers) and beginning work on a small, lightweight missile. Beginning in January 1986 the first fifty MXs went into the Minuteman III holes to replaced those missiles. This was possible because a unique feature of MX was its cold launch. Unlike other silo-based mis- siles, which ignited their first stage in the silo, MX was ejected in its capsule from the silo by highly pressurized steam and ignited when 150 to 300 feet above ground. However, Congress balked at deploying the second fifty in the same manner and capped Meanwhile the Air Force considered the missile proposed by the Scowcroft Commis- sion, a small intercontinental ballistic missile (SICBM) that was mobile. The three-stage Midgetman was designed to deliver a single 500-kiloton warhead sixty-eight hundred nautical miles.21 Another proposal to meet this requirement was to upgrade the Persh- ing missile to a four-stage, 25,000-pound missile. Both missiles were connected with mobile and fixed siting. The United States conducted test launches of the SICBM in 1989 and 1991; however, in response to the dissolution of the Soviet Union it was cancelled in January 1992. There was a considerable difference of opinion on how many ICBMs the United States should deploy. In 1956 President Eisenhower believed that 150 missiles would deter the Soviets, and while a 1957 report recommended 600 ICBMs, the Air Force wanted far more. In 1958 the air service proposed a force of sixteen hundred Minutemen, while Curtis LeMay wanted ten thousand. In December 1964 Secretary of Defense McNamara set the ICBM force at one thousand Minu