e stealth demon- strator (XST, Have Blue) but continued to work with stealth, getting a contract for a battlefield surveillance aircraft (BSAX, Tacit Blue). Unlike the F-117, which was designed mainly to minimize nose on RCS, this aircraft was to be an all-aspect stealth design. It first flew in February 1982. Mean- while the Carter administration, which had cancelled the B-1 in June 1977, went on to authorize the development of a stealth bomber, and in September 1980 the Air Force issued a request for proposal for the ATB. In this competition Northrop beat out its old rival Lockheed with a contract awarded in October 1981 for 6 flying air- craft, 2 static test articles, and options for 127 bombers for $36.6 billion. The B-2 is a distinctive aircraft renown for its unique configuration, its stealth char- acteristics, and perhaps as the last American strategic bomber. Rumors and the high costs generated considerable criticism in the press and Congress. A number of factors account for the high costs. Clearly the B-2 was on the technological cutting edge in a number of areas: stealth, new materials, 293 are named after states as were U.S. battle- ships. This was an amazing cost overrun, $45 billion for 21 aircraft compared with the $37 billion cost estimated in 1981 for 135 aircraft. 3RARES 12 accuracy makes bombers much more lethal, changing the equation from tens and hun- dreds of tons of bombs required to destroy a target to numbers of targets that can be destroyed by one aircraft. Thus it allows a few, smaller fighter and attack aircraft to have great destructive capabilities. Bombers over the Balkans and Middle East PGMs would be even more widely used in subsequent engagements bolstered by another technology, global positioning system. GPS allowed precision accuracy despite obscured visibility (smoke, fog, cloud, or haze) that inhibited LGBs as well as gave a "launch-and-leave" capabil- ity, which further decreased vulnerability. (However, GPS-guided munitions are