heir willingness to go even lower, to 2,000 to 2,500.23 In May 2003 the two parties agreed in the Strategic Offensive Reduction Treaty to reduce warheads to 1,700 to 2,200 by 2012. While diplomacy has reduced the nuclear arsenals of the two leading nuclear powers, it has not halted the spread of nuclear weapons. Ballistic Missile Defense The story of strategic bombardment is a tale of offensive weapons based on improving technology. Nevertheless there have been two major thrusts to deflect the offensive. A nontechnological line has been interna- tional arms-control agreements. A number of these abortive efforts have already been mentioned: the turn-of-the-century Hague agreements and the 1930s disarmament efforts. Efforts over the past four decades have been more successful. In the wake of the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1963 the United States and Soviet Union concluded an agreement that banned above-ground nuclear testing. Ten years later the two nations signed SALT, which limited the numbers of strategic weapons to the exist- ing levels and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, which limited those systems to two sites in each country, later amended to one site each. In June 1979 the two nations Another effort to blunt offensive strategic weapons was to use new technology and build an anti-missile system. Following World War II a number of AAF/USAF and Army projects to develop a ballistic missile defense (BMD) system surfaced and then were cancelled. One that survived began in 1944 as a surface-to-air missile and was fielded in March 1954 as the Nike Ajax and 273 In January 1963 McNamara authorized development of a new system (Nike X) based on two missiles (one new) and a new radar. The existing long-range missile, Nike Zeus, later renamed Spartan, was designed to intercept incoming missiles at the range of three hundred nautical miles and an altitude of one hundred nautical miles and kill them with x-rays from a 5-megaton warhead. It was tested between 1968 and 1973. A n