nts. (Even with the limited ground forces, the United States was running short of infantry replace- ments in late 1944, prompting combing out of training, ground, and air units.) Or what if the strategic bombing effort had been converted into tactical aviation? In hindsight the bombing could have been better conducted. The USSBS con- cluded that it was a major error not to have bombed electrical and chemical targets (especially tetraethyl, the basis of high-test gasoline), not to have focused on aircraft engines rather than airframes, and not to have attacked transportation earlier. Others have observed that the destruction of abra- sive grinding wheels would have severely hobbled the German economy. There is also speculation that Germany could have been defeated sooner if the synthetic oil plants had been bombed earlier and instead of the attacks on bearings. The strategic bombing enacted a heavy toll on Europe. The USSBS estimates Ger- man civilian deaths at 305,000, which is undoubtedly low, while an East German account asserts the number is 410,000, a source that had no reason to underestimate the truth. In addition tens of thousands of civilians in the occupied countries were killed by Allied bombs, 58,000 or more in France alone. Major European cities and their treasures were ravished by the bombs as well. London suffered the destruction of six hundred acres, an area of destruction exceeded in twenty-seven German cities. Where does this leave us? Air power was certainly important. It lessened the casual- ties of Allied ground forces by direct action against the German army and prevented The Allied bombing effort against Germany was large and costly. British and American aircraft dropped some 1.4 mil- lion tons of bombs on Germany. (In stark contrast the Germans unloaded 78,000 tons on Britain and the Soviets some 6,700 tons on mainly Finnish and Hungarian cities.) Americans and British losses were high. The Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces lost eighty-seven hun