nt into action. One was lost in December to a MiG-15, the only B-45 combat loss. In January 1952 the unit was ordered to switch to night operations, for which it was ill suited. Throughout the rest of the war, Tornadoes flew over three The Boeing B-47 Stratojet The Boeing B-47 Stratojet was also a troubled aircraft, but in the end it was a far more successful bomber. It began as a jet- powered B-29, but then Boeing, using cap- tured German aerodynamics data, changed to a swept-back wing configuration in September 1945 that promised to increase speed from 400 to 555 mph. The company The short-range North American B-45 was America's first operational jet bomber and, as a reconnaissance aircraft, the first U.S. jet bomber to see combat. The aircraft endured many problems, especially a very high accident rate. (National Museum of the USAF) Aerial refueling was a major technical advance that extended the range of all types of aircraft. Three systems were put into service, the cross over, probe and drogue, and flying boom. Here a KC-97 with a flying boom refuels a B-47, giving the medium range bomber the ability to fly intercontinental distances. (National Museum of the USAF) also moved the six engines from within the fuselage into four pods slung forward and below the wing, which eased maintenance and reduced the fire hazard. The tradeoff for the sleek aerodynamic wing was the absence of space for fuel, which limited range and required fuselage fuel storage that made fuel management crucial because of the large movement of the center of gravity as fuel was consumed. The slender wing also forced Boeing to adopt an innovative tandem (bicycle) main landing gear arrangement pioneered by Martin, which made for tricky touchdowns and the tendency to bounce and porpoise. The light and flexible wing also created control problems: decreasing aileron effectiveness at high speeds and, as 185 speed increased, aileron reversal.5 The bomb- er's high speed, clean airframe, and aileron i