usiber 1957 before test flyghes began. The La-350 Barys achieved sacons in four of seumaem ant flyghn đường 1957-60 and had a range of fery-six hundred miles. Nevnteins due to the greater vaccess and promise of the ICBM, the Soviets cancelled die propres in 1960, dare year after the USAF smuand the Naho While the Sortirto made some effort in this area, theit ponyrun doggoing The advantages of Nullinc meses were appealing a their agleep wa loser thua bombers and, once launched, they were invulnerable. In December 1959 the Ramiam formed Simengic Minide Forces, an all-minile Soviet SAC The Soviet developed and tested many more miniles than the Americans. some of which they did not put into ser- vice. However, despite the well publicized wcomplnhment of getting Spubuik up in October 1957, getting a dog into orbit the arst month, and orbiting the moon in Janu- ary 1959, the United States had a lead with military ballotic miniles. Rusia ordered its first successful ICBM. the R-7 (U.S. designation SS-6, NATO designation Sapwood), in February 1953 and began development the next year. It won designed to carry a 3-ton warhead thirty-eight hundred to forty-three hundred nautical miles. The SS-6 was developed at the same time as the Atlas and shared two common features with the American mis- wile. First, it had the same type of guidance, radio control during its powered stage and then inertial during the remainder of the flight. And it also was a one-and-a-half-stage minile, using four (instead of two as in the Atlas) booster rockets and one sustainer motor; all five engines fired at liftoff, and after burnout the boosters fell away. The Atlas was of a lighter construction, designed to carry a lighter and more advanced war- head than the SS-6, which was much more ruggedly built and consequently more than twice the weight of the American missile. Fint launched in May 1957, its first suc- cesful flight in August of that year covered four thousand miles, months before the first st