ern Europe to rapidly rearm and refuel shifting aircraft to allow multiple sorties. The Germans learned by November 1942 that head-on attacks were the most effective tactic against the AAF bombers, especially on the bomb run, where open bomb doors masked the forward fire of the belly guns and the bombardier-nose gunner was preoccupied with bombing. Additional advantages were that head-on attacks did not require computation of deflection, the bomber's crew and engines were more vulnerable from the front, and the bomber's nose armament proved inadequate. Fighter effectiveness increased. Whereas seven bombers were lost in one hundred combats with fighters in 1942, that ratio rose to ten by the end of 1943, with a peak in March- April 1944 of eighteen bombers downed per one hundred combats. The defenses were assisted by other means. Flak was less a problem than fight- ers until mid-1944, after which time the number of bombers lost to enemy fighters was less than those downed by flak or flak and fighters. The Germans also used smoke screens to hinder AAF bombing and reconnaissance, smoke decreasing bombing accuracy by a quarter. American Tactical and Equipment Modifications The AAF also made changes from its peace- time tactics to deal with wartime realities. The Eighth began combat operations with six aircraft of a squadron flying in forma- tions a few miles apart but were forced by German defenses to compress the formation to increase defensive firepower, leading to formations of eighteen then thirty-six aircrafts that flew at about twenty thousand feet. By April 1943 the Eighth had increased the numbers in a single formation (combat wing) to fifty-four. This proved unwieldy, and in January 1944 the Eighth experi- mented with a thirty-six-bomber formation, a size that became standard for the remain- der of the war. In January 1943 some formations began to drop their bombs on the signal of the lead bombardier, a change that brought both defensive and offensive advantage