enjoyed an advantage unique in the bombing campaign: precise, timely knowledge of the extent of the dam- age inflicted, that indicated when and which targets required reattack. (With this excep- tion, the airmen received little aid from Ultra as key information on the air war was not transmitted by radio.) The impact of the bombing was dra- matic. Between May and August 1944 German aviation gas stocks fell by half, and half again by November. Motor gasoline saw a similar decline while diesel fuel fell at a lesser rate. Despite drastic conservation measures the Germans had only one-third the stockpiles of fuel in January 1945 as they had one year earlier. The Germans worked vigorously to protect and restore their oil production. In May 1944 the Germans quickly responded to the bombing by shifting flak units to synthetic oil facilities, and by the end of September they had massed 70 percent of their fighters to defend the oil industry. They built concrete blast walls, decoy plants, and shelters and employed smoke screens. The main effort, however, was to deploy men and equipment in order to rapidly repair the facilities. The Allies also had to contend with the onset of poor bombing weather in the This shift in target geography helps explain the decreased Bomber Command losses from 4.1 percent missing per sortie dispatched in the first quarter of 1944 to The months between March and October 1944 brought a marked improvement in Bomber Command's capabilities. All mea- sures of power increased from March to October 1944: the daily average of bombers grew from 1,000 to almost 1,500, monthly sorties rose from 8,200 to 15,400, and  CHAPTER 4 BRITISH STRATEGIC BOMBING monthly bombing tonnage increased from 27,700 to 61,200 tons. British bombers achieved better accuracy due to decreased losses (less distraction on bomb runs and increased experience) and from navigational aids moved forward with the advance of the ground troops that extended Britain's range into Germany. New ma