ional in February 1963 and stayed in service until the end of the decade. This bomber version also featured an enlarged and modified wing, more powerful engines, strengthened landing gear, and a tail cone housing ECM. It first flew in August 1957 and entered service in July 1960 with improved flying and combat performance. Like the other British and American stra- tegic bombers of the day, it was adapted to low-level tactics and proved better able than the Victor to withstand low-level operations. However, the resulting reduction in range put Moscow outside its reach. The Vulcans flew very long distance missions to deny the Argentines the use of the Falkland's one airfield suitable for high-performance aircraft. The round-trip distance between the Falklands and Ascen- sion Island was seventy-five hundred miles, the longest combat mission flown to that date. This required eleven Victor tankers inbound and another seven on the return to refuel one Vulcan six or so times, as well as tanker-to-tanker refueling, all to deliver a stick of twenty-one bombs. The RAF flew three missions against the Port Stanley airfield; on the first raid one bomb cut the runway, the second registered no hits, and a third used an airburst over the airfield. This was a very expensive undertaking but well worth it because the attacks deterred the Argentines from deploying their best aircraft to the islands. The Argentines saw the long- range attacks as a threat not only to the Port The crescent-wing Handley Page Victor's chief advantage over its counterparts was its large bomb bay and ability to carry a heavy bomb load. After a relatively brief service as a bomber, the RAF converted the aircraft into an aerial tanker. (Air University Press) 203 XA922 O XA922 XA922 Stanley airfield but also to the mainland and redeployed their best jet fighters to defend strategic targets in the homeland. (The British considered such attacks but decided instead to keep the war limited to the Falk- lands.) The V