ms, for the next month the French proposed a combined bomb- ing effort under French control and from a French base against German industrial targets. Representatives of the two countries in July 1916 agreed on a list of four target areas; however, due to limited forces only one was practical: blast furnaces in the Saar- 13 46 Lorraine-Luxembourg area that produced almost half of all German steel. The airmen were also authorized to conduct "specific reprisal" attacks on selected towns and cities much deeper in Germany. Compared to later operations the force allocated for this offensive was amazingly small. The planners hoped to equip a force with thirty-five bombers and twenty escort fighters by July. In fact the airmen had an average of forty-three pilots and thirty-five aircraft available for action during the time of greatest bombing activity (October 1916 to March 1917). The bombing effort was further undermined by an exceptionally low serviceability rate of approximately 20  CHAPTER 1 THE EARLY YEARS THROUGH WORLD WAR I percent. Most of these aircraft were Sopwith 11/2 Strutters serving as both bombers and fighters. Configured as a bomber the Strut- ter could carry four 65-pound bombs at a cruise speed of nearly one hundred miles per hour with a combat radius of almost 150 miles. The plan called for an expansion to approximately one hundred aircraft, a number later doubled. The army opposed this concept. In June 1916 Trenchard asserted that observation was aviation's primary objective. The British ground com- mander in France was more forceful when he wrote the War Office in November 1916 that his forces should have top prior- ity and that the strategic bombing effort was a "very serious interference with British Land Forces, and may compromise the suc- cess of my operations."12 aircraft, and supply problems. Nevertheless the unit flew almost 170 sorties in 1916 and 1917, 59 percent against blast furnaces. While the two allies bombed together, their objectives w