e B-17 that first flew in October 1935 weighed 24,500 pounds empty, the B-29 that made its maiden flight in September 1942 weighed 70,000 pounds empty, and the empty B-36 weighed twice that. The bomber was distinguished by its size and its six engines turning pusher props. The B-36 had four bomb bays, which allowed the bomber to carry forty-one tons of bombs, more than the weight of a World War II B-24. This heavily defended bomber was capable of carrying a vast ton- nage of bombs a long way, the dream of the bomber enthusiasts. the giant bomber. He was looking for aircraft with range, stating in January 1949 his basic belief that "the fundamental goal of the Air Force should be the creation of a strategic atomic striking force capable of attacking any target in Eurasia from bases in the United States and returning to the points of take-off."11 The SAC commander had few illusions about prop propulsion in the future, favoring the trouble-plagued jet-powered B-47 over the B-50 and its planned development, the B-54, for the medium bomber role. The B-36 carried a variety of defenses. It mounted the heaviest armament of any bomber to become operational, six retract- able turrets each mounting twin 20-mm cannons as well as twin 20-mm guns in the nose and twin 20-mms in a tail turret. The armament encountered difficulties attributed to design, maintenance, and train- ing, which just about covers everything, and these persisted, so as late as April 1952 armament was considered unsuitable.12 The bomber's large volume allowed SAC to fit it with a number of ECM devices, which were increased during the aircraft's service. The USAF also glide tested an air-launched, rocket-powered decoy, Buck Duck, from a B-50 before canceling the project in January 1956 and tested air-to-surface missiles, spe- cifically the Rascal aboard the B-36, which will be discussed below. The aircraft had a crowd of initial prob- lems, some of which persisted for years. The first concerned the landing gea