fifty aircraft in March 1940, deleted it from production after Dunkirk, but restored it within weeks. The GAF dealt the program a setback in October when it destroyed a warehouse housing Mosquito materials, but not the prototypes or other vital elements of the program. 18 The De Havilland Mosquito Less than two months prior to the Lancast- er's first flight, the De Havilland Mosquito made its initial flight. It combined a small, clean wooden airframe with two Rolls Royce engines, which gave it flying per- formance superior to any bomber until the advent of jets. Perhaps its outstanding virtue was its versatility, for the Mosquito proved to be not only an excellent bomber but excelled in many other roles as well. Its sleek appearance once again reinforces the The Mosquito first took to the air in November 1940, a remarkable eleven months after the start of design work. Test- ing revealed an aircraft with fighter agility and speed approaching four hundred miles per hour-an unheard-of performance for a bomber and faster than the Spitfires then in service-and the ability to perform aerobatic maneuvers with one engine feathered. The bomber version went into action in May 1942. Initially it could carry four 250-pound bombs internally, and later an extension of the bomb bay and bulged bomb doors accommodated a single 4,000- pound bomb. With this load the aircraft could clock 300 mph at sea level and 380 mph at seventeen thousand feet. The Mos- quito's high speed, equivalent to the fastest piston-powered German fighter, meant that the Mosquito could only be overhauled if the interceptor had prior warning, proper position, and superior altitude. As with most new aircraft, the Mosquito encountered problems, including tail shimmy, a tendency to swing on takeoff, a leaky cockpit, and, throughout its service, difficulties with glue. The Mosquito proved extremely versatile, serving in such varied roles as a night fighter, fighter bomber, courier, transport, antisub- marine, antis