tacking bombers, forcing the remainder to scatter their bomb load throughout the German capital. The defend- ers launched 460 fighter sorties, which accounted for the bulk of the sixty-nine bombers downed, four interned in Sweden, and three written off. The bombers claimed ninety-seven GAF fighters and the fighter escort (eight hundred dispatched) another seventy-eight, compared with German records that indicate the loss of sixty-four fighters. The escort lost eleven fighters with two junked. In contrast the mission against Berlin on March 8 saw fewer bomber losses (thirty-seven) and claims (sixty-three), as did an attack in heavy weather on the ninth that met little German opposition, with twenty GAF fighters observed, resulting in only eight missing bombers and one enemy fighter claimed by the bombers and none by the escort. However, on March 18 the Eighth lost forty-three bombers and another four that were scrapped. March the Luftwaffe changed its defensive strategy from maximum resistance to every raid to selective resistance that concentrated on escortless or scattered bomber forma- tions. By this time the Anglo-American fighter force had greater numbers as well as an edge in both aircraft and average pilot quality. The GAF had lots of aircraft and in months would field jets that were superior to Allied fighters. Their downfall was the quality of their pilots. While the Germans had a small core of very experienced and very successful pilots, the mass of their fighter pilots were new, inexperienced, and extremely vulnerable.28 The attrition of the war coupled with fuel shortages forced a dilution of the flying training program and consequential erosion in pilot quality. By the summer of 1944 few GAF fighter units had pilots, aside from their commanders, with more than six months experience. While Luftwaffe defenses declined, they still were able to inflict stinging losses on the American bombers. In April there were five missions on which the Eighth lost more th