t until February 1943 that the planners looked at  CHAPTER 6 RAZING JAPAN fire raids on Japanese cities as a possibil- ity, although there were questions over the legitimacy of such attacks. By June 1944 a top targeting committee established the target priority: aircraft, coke, oil, electronics, bearings, urban areas, and shipping. In June 1944 (when the B-29 bombing began) the targeting committee established a subcom- mittee to study how to burn out the six major Japanese cities on Honshu. It reported that if 70 percent of the six were destroyed, it would take out 20 percent of Japan's war industry and inflict 560,000 casualties. The subcommittee admitted that such attacks would be spread across the entire economy and not on a specific industry, would not immediately impact on the combat areas, and would have only a questionable effect on civilian morale. The planning that fol- lowed pushed up the priority of cities. In September the planners noted how Japan had been effectively cut off from resources in Southeast Asia, the prospect of an early invasion, the success of the antishipping campaign, and the possibility that Japan could be blockaded by mines planted by B-29s. It further commented that bombing of cities should await the arrival of suf- ficient forces. These staff papers continued to underestimate the tons required to burn out Japanese cities at the same time raising humanitarian concerns. theater were much greater. From Honolulu to Tokyo is thirty-nine hundred miles, from Dutch Harbor in the Aleutians it is twenty- seven hundred miles. The distance between Manila and the Japanese capital is nineteen hundred miles, and from Guam sixteen hundred miles. So for all of its superlative performance, the B-29 could not begin strategic air attacks until the Allies closed with the enemy. A second factor was bases. A number of potential basing areas were considered. Weather and logistics weighed heavily against the Aleutians, while Soviet nonco- operation ruled out