r Japan on August 17 and 18. On both days they were intercepted by Japanese fighters, the bomber gunners claiming one destroyed on the seventeenth and two on the eigh- teenth, the last American victory claims of the war. The B-32s suffered minor damage from AAA and fighters and on the last mis- sion had one man killed and two wounded. Only fifteen B-32s reached the theater, and although no B-32s were lost in combat, one was lost in testing, two in training, and two in accidents after the war's end. The AAF cancelled the contract for 1,588 B-32s and scrapped all of the existing B-32s. Hindered by delays and techni- cal problems, it was not pushed as was the B-29 and was barely able to get into the war, where it performed in a mediocre fashion. While it was an improvement over the B-24, it did not approach that aircraft's accomplishments or those of the B-29. As a result it has been relegated to the dustbin of history, a forgotten also-ran. As one historian has concluded, "To the end, the B-32 was unwanted and unloved."22 Japanese Attacks on America Japan initiated the war against the United States with attacks on Pearl Harbor and the Philippines, which were meant to cover its While B-29s burned out main thrust to seize the resource rich areas most of urban Japan, of Southeast Asia. The Japanese counted the Japanese could only on a fierce defense, broad ocean areas, and respond with a few weak-willed Americans to lead to a suc- ineffective pin pricks. In cessful conclusion of the war, and it had their largest effort the Japanese launched over nine thousand armed neither the plans, technology, nor resources to attack the U.S. mainland. In contrast to balloons; however, their spectacular efforts and victories in the the one thousand that reached North America caused little damage and killed only six. Gun camera film (lower right) shows the destruction of a balloon by a P-38. (National Museum of the USAF) western Pacific, Japanese actions against North America were pitif