965. (USAF) In contrast to the disappointing and dif- ficult experience with these postwar cruise missiles, ballistic missiles were much more successful. U.S. forces brought scores of V-2s stateside and between 1946 and 1952 fired sixty-seven of them. But the real prize were the Germans associated with the program, most notably Wernher von Braun and 127 other missile experts who came to the United States in early 1946 and formed the initial core of the Army missile (and later space) program. The AAF was espe- cially interested in the device pushed by its chief, the futuristic minded Henry "Hap" Arnold. After much infighting the Air Force was granted control over air launched, winged, and intercontinental-range mis- siles; the Army was given control of shorter range missiles to support its forces; and the Navy was given control over ship- and submarine-launched missiles. In late 1945 the AAF had twenty-six surface-to-surface missile projects with ranges between twenty and five thousand miles. In early 1946 Convair received a contract for a missile able to carry a five-thousand- pound payload up to five thousand miles; it developed into the first American intercontinental ballistic missile. The Atlas introduced three innovations that improved its performance over that of the V-2. The first was a detachable warhead that made 243  lys lock 244 CHAPTER 10 MISSILES reentry much less a problem. To save weight the missile used integral tanks and had a thin outer skin. The third improvement was swiveling (gimbaled) rocket engines. It was a good start, but the cutback in military spending led to many project cancellations, including the Atlas in July 1947. Problems cited included the heavy payload, inadequate fuels, and high reentry temperatures that indicated the missile would require eight to ten years development. A June 1947 Air Staff missile memo put the long-range missile fourth in priority. (Between fiscal years 1951 and 1954 the Atlas received $26 million, the Snark a