rasted with Boeing's 34 percent. The military picked the Boeing design four times, and each time was rebuffed by their civilian superiors. It came down to the fact that the Air Force had more confidence in Boeing (having built the very successful B-17, B-47, and B-52) and stressed the superior performance promised by the company. The Navy really didn't want either design. The civilian decision makers had a different view, believing that the GD design was less risky, more realistic in cost estimates, and, most of all, more common. As the military agreed that either design could meet the basic requirements (and that the performance gap between the two designs had narrowed during the course of the four competitions), The hearings ended but not the aircraft's controversies and problems. The very prem- ise of the TFX, a common airframe for two services, each with a different mission, soon fell apart. The Navy never wanted such a machine, and fought the concept all the way. Certainly there were problems of operating such a large aircraft from a carrier, but the Navy certainly didn't try as hard with the F-111 as it later did with its own design, the F-14. Within six months of Secretary McNamara's resignation in February 1968, the Navy withdrew from the program. This left the Air Force with an aircraft that had been compromised in its design, some say ruined, by Navy requirements that shortened the aircraft's length to fit carrier elevators; mandated side-by-side seating for the two-man crew (and also permitted a larger radar antenna), which increased drag; and beefed up the airframe for carrier operations and to carry the heavy air-to- 227 air (Eagle later Phoenix) missile, which increased weight. high drag from the engine exhaust nozzle. There were manufacturing problems never encountered by the aviation industry: flaw- less holes had to be drilled, but fatigue tests in 1968 found cracks at less than half their expected life. Even the windshield proved inadequate. Drag a