ember Hansell began to send three sorties a day on "weather strike missions" to harass the Japanese, gather weather informa- tion, and conduct photo and radar recon- naissance. Another program reduced the bomber's weight by decreasing fuel loading by 3,600 pounds, enabling one bomb bay tank to be removed which netted a further weight savings of 1,500 pounds, and deleting 1,900 pounds of armor. In January the unit began removing the 20-mm tail gun, which had proved both unnecessary and ineffective. These efforts could neither conceal the 73rd's modest results nor immediately improve them. Arnold decided in December to replace Hansell with LeMay. Writers have favored Hansell on his firing, for he was both a sympathetic character and later very accessible to historians. A case can certainly be made on his behalf. For like Wolfe he probably should not have gotten the job in the first place as his forte was planning, not command. It also should be emphasized that the XXIst was improving despite unprec- edented problems. Arnold was unsympa- thetic and well known for his intolerance of slow or limited results. On the other hand Hansell was inflexible in adhering to the prewar bombing doctrine, LeMay outranked Hansell, the Indo-Chinese operation was about to shut down, and LeMay had the well-deserved reputation for getting things done and was probably the best combat bomber commander in the AAF. LeMay For all of his unhappiness, at first he made few changes. Through the middle of March the unit flew eight missions against Japan, six precision and two that tested incendiary tactics. These were flown slightly below the altitudes of the missions under Hansell and were even less successful; on three of these not one bomb fell on the primary target. There were signs of improve- ment, however, as mechanical problems decreased and bomb loads increased. Two of these early missions under LeMay are noteworthy. The Americans con- sidered the air battle of January 27 the most savage of