and was  s lock 196 CHAPTER 8 BETWEEN KOREA AND VIETNAM 197 attitude from which the pilot could not see the runway when the aircraft was less than two hundred feet above it. Throughout its service it experienced tire and brake prob- lems. Perhaps its most serious failing was the "occasional unreliability" of the flight con- trols, linked with a series of accidents that persisted for at least six years. A SAC general in May 1959 opined that the command was getting an aircraft that "will have limited operational capabilities, questionable reliabil- ity, and dubious maintainability."26 He was correct. Throughout the bomber's service there was a long list of malfunctioning com- ponents and serious fatigue problems. SAC's new, low-level tactics cut range, introduced low-altitude control problems, increased structural fatigue, and along with the lack of terrain following/avoidance radar limited the B-58 to subsonic speeds. Designed for a different operational environment, the Hus- tler ended up range-limited with its primary virtue, supersonic speed, nullified. Convair proposed a number of improvements to enhance the bomber's value; however, the Air Force rejected them due to cost and because they posed a threat to the airmen's preferred bomber, the B-70. Not surpris- ingly, the B-58 had the highest accident rate of all of SAC's jet bombers except the B-45. computer, and the navigation aids included not only search radar and a radar altimeter, but also an astrotracker and inertial system. The aircraft's defensive armament consisted of a tail-mounted 20-mm Gatling gun. The Convair bomber made its initial flight in November 1956, went supersonic the next month, and in June 1957 reached Mach 2. During its career it broke nineteen world records, setting six during one mission in January 1961. Although its top speed was listed at 1,000 knots, it set one record at 1,133 knots. It can be argued that the B-70 has garnered more attention than any other experimental U.S. jet and ma