These differences led to tactics that varied from the prewar American strategic bombing theory and those initially employed over Europe. It ended with the use of the atomic bomb, what appeared to be the ultimate strategic bombardment weapon. The Japanese cam- paign proved more efficient and destructive than the German one, but was it decisive? The Boeing B-29 Superfortress The B-29 came late to the war, one of only two AAF aircraft that first flew during the war and yet served in combat.1 Understand- ably it was hurriedly pushed into produc- tion and service. This pressure, its cutting edge performance, and numerous advanced features ensured it would have problems, and it seemingly had more than its fair share. Curtis LeMay, who solidified his reputation employing the bomber, later commented that the "B-29 had as many bugs as the entomological department of the Smith- sonian Institution. Fast as they got the bugs licked, news ones crawled out from under the cowling."2 Even after developing the outstanding B-17,American airmen pushed for bombers with greater performance, especially longer range. In January 1940 the airmen sent out a request to aircraft manufacturers for a 129  CHAPTER 6 130 RAZING JAPAN which meant that if a gunner was disabled, firepower from that turret was not lost. The experience over Europe with head-on attacks encouraged the airmen to upgrade forward defense by doubling the number of guns in the top forward turret. This proved to be less an advantage than hoped for, but fortunately the B-29s over Japan faced less fighter opposition than did the B-17s and B-24s over Germany and the system did an adequate job.3 bomber with a 5,333-mile range, 400-mph top speed, and a one-ton bomb load. Boeing won a contract to build three experimental bombers (and a fourth airframe for static tests) with the first to be delivered by March 1941. In the event the Boeing design failed, the airmen also awarded Consolidated a contract for the B-32 (see below). The des