AAF high-altitude doctrine. Such tactics promised better bombing accuracy and the element of surprise. The airmen in Europe disliked the concept for good reason: Low-altitude oper- ations were much more dangerous. The AAF would employ 177 B-24s (selected because of their superior range) with two additional fuel tanks fitted in the bomb bay and a low- level bombsight substituted for the Norden. Low-level operations encouraged the airmen to remove the ball turret and prompted them to equip some bombers with fixed forward- firing machine guns and some with dual .50s in the waist positions. August Glory and Gore Two of the most famous American bomb- ing missions of all time took place in August 1943. Both were aimed at critical targets, featured daring and innovative tactics, demonstrated that the bomber could get through, met fierce resistance, and suf- fered heavy losses. They wrote a glorious page in AAF history, yet their impact on the war was much less than anticipated and their cost was unacceptable. These missions and the ones over the next few months cast increasing doubt on AAF strategic bombing operations. Just after sunrise on August 1, 1943, the AAF launched almost 180 bombers from Libyan bases led by the commander of 9th Bomber Command, Brigadier General Uzal Ent, along with the commanders of each of the five participating B-24 groups. 14 The missions got off to a bad start as one Lib crashed shortly after takeoff and a second went down half way across the Mediter- ranean. The Liberator formations strung out and were further scattered by bad weather. (The airmen did not use their radios to 111 regroup in order to maintain radio silence and preserve secrecy; unfortunately German radar and signals intelligence had already detected the attack). As a result two groups reached the target area before the remain- ing three. The greatest misfortune was the attacker's misidentification of the turning point, which carried two of the five groups away from the target a