nter attacks. There was some movement in July toward hitting airfields and later rail yards in the North, but SAC presented a wider plan in September. As the Communist drive stalled, diplomatic activity increased and the wider bombing was put on hold. the Soviets in Moscow in May, thus the fear of Chinese or Soviet intervention was largely removed. On the other hand the American people had no stomach for war in 1972; clearly the United States would not commit ground forces. Therefore the American reaction would be air power or nothing. President Richard Nixon exclaimed, "The bastards have never been bombed like they're going to be bombed."3 Initially he suggested a three-day bomb- ing campaign against Hanoi and Haiphong. After the JCS disappointed him with a plan he called "too timid," the president's assistant, Gen. Alexander Haig, came up with a wider air campaign that included the long-sought- after mining of North Vietnamese ports. The air effort was code named Linebacker, later Linebacker I, and would last from May 10 to October 22, 1972. Linebacker I differed from Rolling Thunder in two ways. For one, it had clear goals: It was aimed at North Vietnam's ability to make war, its army in the field, its supplies, and its transportation infrastructure. Another difference was that the various prohibited zones were reduced. Neverthe- less the bulk of the targets were interdic- tion. There were few strategic targets, and because of fears of collateral damage and the resulting bad press, a number of prime targets were not attacked. As the Commu- nist ground offensive stalled, interest on both sides shifted to the diplomatic arena and in late October the United States stopped bombing north of the twentieth parallel. In May the Navy planted mines that blockaded North Vietnamese ports. Mean- while the United States rapidly reinforced its air forces in Southeast Asia, including sending over half its B-52s to Guam and Thailand and boosting B-52s from 42 aircraft and 57 crew