e 223 airmen also dramatically revised tactics, for the next four nights limiting bombing to one wave of thirty B-52Ds attacking targets away from Hanoi. The airmen also changed from attempting to lay a Chaff corridor, which the winds dispersed or moved, to laying a Chaff blanket. (This was success- ful for while the former had covered about 15 percent of the aircraft, the latter gave protection to 85 percent.) After a thirty-six- hour stand-down over Christmas, the B-52 bombing resumed with larger numbers and a return to the Hanoi area with tactics that featured compressed attacks from multiple headings, attacks of SAM sites, and more effective Chaff tactics. On December 27 the North Vietnamese sent a message to  224 CHAPTER 9 THE 1960S AND 1970S bombing accuracy and bombing damage were poor: a CEP of twenty-seven hundred feet (not the predicted eight hundred feet) and damage was less than a quarter of that expected. The Stratoforts had suffered significant losses against a dense, although dated and limited air defense system. Washington that they were ready to restart the talks. One reason for the North's change of heart was that they were running out of SAMs; on the night of the twenty-sixth they had only half the number they had had available for action on the first night of the campaign. They were essentially defenseless. On the other side, American airmen were tired and had run out of significant targets. (All that remained would be direct attacks on the population or dike system.) On December 29 the airmen flew the last of the eleven Linebacker missions. Nevertheless Linebacker II has been held up as air power at its finest, fairly unrestricted bombing achieving success. Some have gone as far to proclaim it as a war winning strategy that could have brought victory if it had only been used at the beginning of the conflict. But to be clear, while Linebacker I was a clear success, air power playing a major role in defeat- ing a ground assault, Linebacker II gain