number of obstacles. These included the requirements of range, accuracy, bomb load, target intelligence, and the ability to counter poor weather and enemy defenses. The power of strategic bombardment increased as delivery systems improved, first with bombers and later with missiles. Initially guided bombs and missiles bolstered bomber capabilities, but later missiles-ballistic and cruise, air-, sea-, and land-launched-challenged and supplanted bombers as the strategic weapon of choice.  INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION In World War I air power, especially as employed as observation, reconnaissance, and, increas- ingly, ground support, proved very valuable. Some believed that the airplane could do far more, that the airplane could decide future wars, for limited strategic bombing operations during World War I revealed its promise, encouraged military theorists, fanned the imagina- tions of proponents, and stoked the fears of the public. The desire to avoid the slaughter and indecisiveness of World War I fostered interest in strategic bombardment. Although these ideas far exceeded the capabilities of the technology of the 1920s and 1930s, during this period they gained considerable currency. World War II would test these concepts. The midcentury conflict saw two major coalitions fighting a total war, mobilizing their economies and populations, and employing the most modern technologies. This massive war involved the bulk of the industrialized world, devastated countries, and killed perhaps 50 million. Early in the war the Germans and Japanese made effective use of air power, which greatly contributed to their spectacular victories. The Allies responded, slowly but massively, and overwhelmed the Axis powers with superior numbers and competitive technology. Both coalitions made effective and widespread use of air power, but only the Americans and British employed strategic bombardment on a grand scale. This bombing was hampered by problems associated with weather, accuracy, in