d capacity to carry a greater bomb load. (It also had an altitude advantage over the Vulcan.) The Victor began to leave the bomber role in 1968 to take up tanker duties. The Mark 2 Victor had a ceiling of fifty-six thousand feet and a top speed of Mach .95; however, it did (accidentally) exceed the speed of sound in a dive. The Victor soldiered on as a tanker until the end of 1993. Handley Page built fifty Mark 1s and thirty-four Mark 2s. The RAF intended to replace these bombers with the TSR.2 (Tactical Strike Reconnaissance Mach 2). It, like the Ameri- can B-35, B-49, B-70, and F-111, was very controversial, and like the first three, has garnered more press than more successful, more numerous operational aircraft. One aviation historian writes that it "is likely to be remembered for all time as a textbook lesson in how not to arm an air force. The very mention of it arouses passions, some thinking that this aircraft should never have been cancelled and others that is should never have been started. Like so much of Britain's aerospace history, it was an amal- gam of indecisiveness by the customer, mas- sive and chaotic bureaucracy and disastrous involvement by the politicians."34 It is a classic understatement to note that the timing of this aircraft was most unfortu- nate as it got caught up in a major change (Left) The British planned to replace the V-bombers with the supersonic TSR.2. Instead, a major controversy erupted and the combination of surface-to-air missiles, the lure of cheaper American weapons, and British politics shot it down. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) 205 in aircraft requirements, a monumental shift in British industry, and a turnover in politics. By the late 1950s the quest for higher and faster encountered the uncomfortable reality that surface-to-air missiles rendered such tactics problematic, mandating a transition to low and fast. The overall environment was laid out by the April 1957 British white paper that held that manned aircra