esire to cut costs along with the increasing lethality of defenses (longer range radars and surface-to-air missiles) and the long time to target as compared to the less vulnerable and much faster ballistic missiles. The USAF, along with the aviation industry, were strong lobbyists for manned bombers with much greater influence in the American process than their counterparts in Russia. And while the Soviets had an advantage with ballistic missiles, certainly initially, they trailed the United States in bomber technology. The Soviets were more comfortable with ballistic missiles, consistent with their strong artillery tradition, than with strategic bombing, with which they had essentially no experience. In addition, employment of ballistic missiles allowed greater centralized control than the use of manned bombers, of greater impor- tance to them than to the Americans. As a result the Soviet leader pushed for missiles at the expense of bombers. The two superpowers created different delivery strategies in the late 1950s. Whereas the United States adopted a triad consisting of manned, penetrating bombers, land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs), and submarine-launched ballistic missiles (SLBMs), the Soviets essentially phased out bombers to rely on a dyad consisting of the other two. This decision was fostered by both economic and military factors, the  Chapter 9 214 THE 1960S AND 1970S The 1960s and 1970s VIETNAM, NEW AIRCRAFT, MUNITIONS, TACTICS, AND TRAINING Union. Fidel Castro's inflammatory rhetoric, America's fear of communism, and Cuba's proximity to the United States made him a particular irritant and seemingly a potential threat. At the same time the competition for military superiority and the near hysteria following the launches of the Sputnik satel- lites led to American fears of bomber and missile gaps. The Soviets saw an opportunity to offset the balance of power by capitalizing on Cuba's location, the inexperience of the new American presid