mber, and reduced landing speed from 81 mph to 71 mph. The Army ordered forty-eight production aircraft which incorporated two sliding canopies, one over the pilot and the other over the rear gunner. These YB-10s were followed by the B-10B, the major production model that featured manually deployed wing flaps and controllable pitch propellers and, with greater engine power, increased top speed to 213 mph. In short, the Martin B-10 was the first bomber to incorporate all of the tech- nological improvements of the era and was rewarded with outstanding performance. The B-10 handled well and was con- sidered a very "forgiving aircraft," a quality highly regarded by pilots. On the negative side, the crew could not exchange posi- tions in flight, the copilot would have great difficulty landing the aircraft due to his restricted forward visibility, and the aircraft had a tendency to float when landing at light weights. Because of its chunky profile and despite its outstanding performance, the Martin bomber earned the unflatter- ing nickname "Flying Whale." The Army bought 154 B-10s and its derivatives, the most it acquired of any bomber type between the DH-4 and the Douglas B-18. The B-10 was the fastest bomber of its day and garnered much publicity, many (Left) The Martin B-10 incorporated the latest aviation technology of the early 1930s and was the breakaway bomber that clearly demonstrated U.S. dominance in that field. Despite its chunky appearance and unflattering nickname ("Flying Whale"), it flew well and fast (it was the first two-hundred- mile-per-hour bomber) and more than 270 were built. (National Museum of the USAF) records, and frequent awards. In 1932 Martin received the prestigious Collier Trophy, awarded for the outstanding annual achieve- ment in aviation. Henry "Hap" Arnold led ten B-10s on an eighty-three-hundred-mile flight to Alaska and back in the summer of 1934, which attracted considerable press attention. The Martin bomber also made distant flights