ond, making an aircraft less detectable to radar made it less flyable as the standard aircraft configura- tion, the right angles and vertical surfaces, antennas, inlets, canopies, and external stores created large radar returns. To further complicate the designers' problems, it took major reductions of radar cross-section to significantly reduce radar detection ranges. 3 reconnaissance aircraft, the A-12, was the first aircraft that considered RCS from its origin. The company used RAM, composite materials, as well as "iron ball" paint, but problems of size, cost, and structural strength greatly limited this approach; the A-12 also demonstrated another RCS reduction method: shaping the structure. The aircraft's blended wing, inward canted vertical tails, and body flared outward into broad chines lessened the aircraft's radar return. Report- edly the 140,000-pound aircraft had the RCS of a tiny Piper Cub. Nevertheless there were major problems with radar returns from the engine inlets. The first operational effort to reduce radar signature was made in 1945 by the Germans, who used mats of radar-absorbing material around the snorkel tubes of their new Type XXI U boats, which cut radar detection range by 25 percent. Applying RAM to aircraft was more difficult due to the size, weight, and structural integrity of the aircraft, and the shape of the RAM, as the aerodynamics and electronics oper- ated against each other. In the mid-1950s the USAF tested a RAM-covered T-33 (Passport Visa), which demonstrated that although the RAM degraded flying perfor- mance, such an aircraft could fly and that RCS could be reduced. The USAF also tested metal wire screens over the engine inlets on both bomber and cruise missile that cut the RCS, but as it reduced the flow of air into the engines it degraded engine and aircraft performance. The USAF attempted at least four different schemes to reduce the U-2's RCS, but none resulted in major RCS reduction, although most adversely affected air