nd, throughout its service, difficulties with glue. The Mosquito proved extremely versatile, serving in such varied roles as a night fighter, fighter bomber, courier, transport, antisub- marine, antishipping, reconnaissance, and night intruder, escort fighter, and "nuisance" bomber, and it was especially valuable in the Pathfinder Force. In all almost seventy-eight hundred Mosquitoes were built. Despite feverish efforts the Germans never found a solution for the Mosquito. Not surpris- ingly the De Havilland bomber registered the lowest loss rate per sortie of any Bomber Command bomber.  CHAPTER 4 BRITISH STRATEGIC BOMBING Bomber Command in Action Bomber Command's limited abilities con- strained its activities during 1942, but the unit flew some notable missions. In late March British bombers attacked the "fairly important, but not vital" medium-sized city of Lubeck. The 234 aircraft delivered just over three hundred tons of munitions and destroyed half of the city at the cost of thirteen bombers in what Harris considered an "unqualified success." It showed what British bombers could do in good weather and in bright moonlight conditions. A month later Rostock was the target on four consecutive nights, the first two inef- fective, the third considered an outstanding success, and the last a masterpiece. These raids destroyed 70 percent of the old city and were widely publicized. In the words of the official account, "Thus, by the end of April 1942, Bomber Command under the vigorous leadership of Air Marshal Harris had shown, not only to Britain's allies but also to her enemies, the tremendous poten- tial power of the long-range heavy bomber force."19 That may exaggerate the Rostock mission and is probably more appropriate for the thousand bomber raid on Cologne two months later. This attack was a daring move by Harris because he had to employ large numbers of crews in operational training units to muster the 1,046 bombers that he dispatched. Almost 900 bombers flew thr