British field commanders thought morale bombing was irrelevant and reprisal attacks had to be carefully considered. The French were restricted by their aircraft and adopted a practical concept well within their means, targeting the German rail network as well as iron and steel installations. In October 1917 the Royal Flying Corps formed the 41st Wing with the mission of strategic bombing of the German homeland. The unit consisted of three squadrons, one  CHAPTER 1 62448 THE EARLY YEARS THROUGH WORLD WAR The British were of two minds as to the primary mission of the bombing. In June 1918 the new chief of the Air Staff, Sir Frederick Sykes, presented a plan to the War Cabinet to attack Germany's root industries, of which chemicals were the primary target.14 Meanwhile the public, members of Parliament, and the cabinet minister for air urged the bombing of cities. The French, who supported British opera- tions flying from French bases, had increas- ing reservations about bombing German cities, because they feared retaliation, and thus wanted control over such operations. (The British formed a unit based in Britain equipped with the long-range Handley Page V/1500 to free them from French restrictions, but the war ended before these went into action.) The key player in this, Trenchard, straddled the fence on targeting, day-bomber unit flying de Havilland DH-4s and two night-bomber squadrons flying Handley Page O/100s and F.E.2bs. Unlike the earlier British strategic bombing unit, the 41st made little effort to coordinate with the similar French bombing offensive. Ninety-five of 118 bombers dispatched on the day raids dropped eleven tons of bombs on blast furnaces, while 40 of 59 aircraft launched on the night attacks dropped nine- teen tons of bombs. Postwar allied bombing surveys and German officials led one histo- rian to conclude that "material results were incommensurate with the effort" and at best disappointing.13 The attacks on railroads, consisting of 33 percent o