ded its policy, allowing the two allies to cooperate in nuclear weapons development. Australian and Argentine colors.) In the words of one author, the "Lincoln was effec- tive, reliable and popular with its crews and quickly gained an enviable reputation."27 requested long-range bombers from the United States during the war, which the Americans rejected. The Soviets were not to be denied, as they put a number of interned Forts and Libs into service and went even further with the Superfort. During the bombing of Japan three B-29s made forced landings in Russia. The Soviets returned the crews, kept the aircraft, and in a remark- ably rapid fashion reverse engineered the bomber they designated Tu-4 (NATO code named Bull). Rumors of the Russian effort circulated as early as 1946, strengthened by Soviet attempts to buy B-29 tires, wheels, and brakes. The Tu-4 made its first flight in May 1947, and three flew in the August 1947 Tushino air show, which some Western observers discounted as the interned AAF B-29s. The concurrent appearance of a transport version of the B-29 undercut that interpretation. well as American allies. The Soviets put the first Tu-4s into service in mid-1949 and by the end of that year had three hundred. In all they built between eight hundred and one thousand and even transferred twenty to twenty-five to the Chinese in the early 1950s. The Tu-4 remained in production until 1953 and in service into the early 1960s. The combat performance of the B-29 in the Korean War demonstrated to the Soviets that the era of the piston-powered bomber was over; instead they chose to build turboprop-powered bombers. Special circumstances brought the Super- fortress into British service. In the late 1940s Bomber Command was seeking an interim bomber to fill the gap between its prop- powered Lancasters and Lincolns and its oncoming jet-powered bombers. The idea of borrowing B-29s emerged when the United States considered extending large military aid to its allies in t