, a policy called "massive retaliation."These changes coincided with President Eisenhower's desire to balance the budget by cutting government spend- ing. He focused on the military, slashed conventional forces (Army and Navy), and emphasized the USAF in his "New Look" strategy. Nuclear warfare requires fewer 237  shi 238 CHAPTER 10 MISSILES 239 men, machines, and money than conven- tional warfare. Thus the defense share of federal spending dropped from 64 percent to 47 percent, and personnel fell from 3.5 million to 2.5 million. This was the period of Air Force, SAC, and bomber dominance. Another aspect of the 1950s was the rise of civilian theorists of nuclear policy and the corresponding decline of military influence on the theoretical level.1 The peak of this strategy is perhaps indicated by the Febru- ary 1961 Single Integrated Operational Plan (SIOP, the U.S. nuclear targeting plan), which called for the launch of all of Ameri- ca's nuclear weapons (2,164 megatons) with a projected death toll of 175 million Rus- sians and Chinese. addition to hitting Russian military forces ("damage limitation"). As the Soviets neared nuclear parity this grew into a policy of mutual assured destruction, with both adversaries having the capability to destroy the other, with the fitting but unfortunate acronym, MAD. This involved deploying a force that could weather a first strike from the Soviets with the ability to counter and destroy (or mortally wound) the Soviets. (The goal has been variously stated to ensure the destruction of half to two-thirds of Soviet industry and one-fifth to one-third of their population.) Today U.S. policy is based on nuclear deterrence and the ability to absorb a first strike and retaliate with an overwhelming counterblow. year. (USAF) (Right) The United States cautiously added intercontinental missiles to its inventory and initially was more comfortable with cruise rather than ballistic missiles, as they shared many of the characteristics of manne