(delayed by a takeoff crash that blocked the runway for hours) at night. The daylight attack is notable as it was the first major aerial clash between the B-29s and the Japanese defenders. The Japa- nese got fifty to sixty fighters aloft, and they made almost 150 attacks, primarily head on, that knocked down three Superforts, one by gunfire and two from a collision the Ameri- cans believed was deliberate. Flak destroyed another two Boeing bombers. The bombers' guns worked well, and the gunners claimed seventeen Japanese fighters destroyed. In the end it cost the Americans thirteen bombers, five to enemy action, to deliver 112 tons of bombs. guide of East and Southeast Asia. Probably the most notable of these attacks was the operation against the Hankow dock area on December 18, the outfit's first daylight incendiary attack. Of the 101 bombers that left India for the staging bases, 84 bombed the primary target with 511 tons of incendiaries. In contrast to the other raids, which were inconclusive, this one burned out about 180 acres in fires that lasted three days. A XXth Bomber Command report noted the "tremendous potential destructive capability of B-29 aircraft against suitable incendiary targets."10 During the operations from India and China serviceability improved, although it remained a major problem. The airmen had to deal with primitive base condi- tions, parts shortages, and inexperience. The B-29's engines remained the major difficulty, responsible for 45 percent of mechanical failures for the period July through Novem- ber 1944. Radar was another problem area, malfunctioning on 60 percent of the sorties in November and between July and November causing 9 percent of the air- borne aborts. Strikingly, operational causes accounted for 70 percent of the bombers lost by the XXth Bomber Command. The object was to get bombs on selected, vital targets, but those hit from China and India were not the critical, bottleneck targets envisioned by the airmen at the ACTS.