nd Convair's delta-wing B-58 was the first American supersonic bomber. One unique feature was its jettisonable, underslung pod, which carried both the weapon and part of the fuel. While a technological marvel, its decade of SAC service proved troublesome, expensive, and accident prone. (National Museum of the USAF) 195 retrieved by a B-36. The parasite arrange- ment would shed considerable weight from the bomber, allow supersonic speed, and give it long legs. Thus it was half the weight of the competing, more conventional, and losing Boeing design. Although LeMay wanted a large bomber with great range, Headquarters USAF wanted a small bomber with supersonic speed. "not desired in the SAC inventory."25 In 1955 the USAF acknowledged that the B-58 would not meet its range and altitude requirements. With the program's high cost, SAC's objections, and the aircraft's perfor- mance difficulties it appeared it would be cancelled. Three factors saved the program. First, the airmen had already spent a con- siderable sum on the aircraft, three-quarters of a billion dollars by mid-1958, making cancellation difficult to justify to Congress. Second, Senate majority leader Lyndon Johnson was a strong advocate because the B-58 was to be built in Texas. Third, the USAF wanted a bomber to bridge the gap between the B-52 and its dream bomber, the B-70. Thus in August 1955 Twining ordered one wing to be equipped with the delta-winged bomber. By December 1951 Convair deleted the parasite concept and the jettisonable engine. In addition the company added a third crewmember (in tandem seating) with which it won a contract in November 1952. By March of the next year the design evolved in response to higher than expected drag at supersonic speed and the discovery by NACA of a solution, the area rule. Using the company's experience with the F-102, Convair pinched in the waist to give the fuselage its "wasp-waist" or "coke bottle" shape. Other elements included a 60-degree delta wing with a c