ubbed after the war as a symbol of the immorality of strategic bombardment. (Air Historical Branch [RAF] Ministry of Defense)  CHAPTER 4 BRITISH STRATEGIC BOMBING Navigational Devices The RAF encountered considerable navigational problems, as the Butt Report made strikingly clear. The British were slow to develop navigational aids and develop- ment took some time. What first appeared was Gee, a radio device service tested in May 1941 that went into operations the following March. Three ground stations transmitted signals to the bomber that were displayed on a cathode-ray tube and then translated onto a special chart to indicate the aircraft's position. Gee had three limitations: range was no more than three hundred to four hundred miles, accuracy was relatively poor and declined with range, and the sys- tem could be jammed. After August 1942 jamming rendered it essentially useless east of the Dutch coast, however, it continued to assist the bombers on their outbound and inbound legs. By this time 80 percent of Bomber Command carried the device, and by January 1943 the unit was fully equipped. Oboe was Bomber Command's first true blind bombing aid.8 Equipment positioned in Britain emitted radio signals, reinforced by onboard equipment that guided aircraft along a parabolic track. Oboe went into operational service in December 1942. Like Gee, the device was limited in range by aircraft altitude and, in fact, had less range than Gee. However its accuracy was far better, measured in hundreds of yards so it was mainly used by the Pathfinder Force. The device doubled Bomber Command's bombing accuracy between 1942 and the spring of 1943. It had two major drawbacks: one pair of stations could handle only one bomber at time, and it could be jammed. A third aid to navigation was G-H, which combined much of Gee and Oboe and has been described as Oboe in reverse. The bomber carried both a transmitter and receiver that employed ground stations. While its range was limited, its a