irst B-52 flight. As might be expected this conversion could not match the performance of the more recently designed B-52. In addition flight tests demonstrated a number of unfa- vorable aspects such as speed limits at low altitude (due to structural considerations), buffeting at high altitudes, unsatisfactory stability, and difficulties especially with the engines, auxiliary power, controls, and elec- tric power. Air Force testers in 1953 sum- marized: "The YB-60 airplane did not prove to be a satisfactory airplane."14 These flaws probably could have been worked out, but to no profit, as the B-60 was little improved over the B-36 (only a small air speed and no altitude advantage) and was markedly infe- rior to the B-52. In January 1953 the USAF cancelled the program. A Navy Effort The U.S. Navy sought to get into the nuclear delivery mission, as already noted with the P2V and AJ-1 prop-powered aircraft (see chapter 7). At the end of the decade the sea service took another tack. In March 1949 a Navy study advocated the use of long-range flying boats supported by ships and submarines in a variety of mis- sions, including strategic bombing, a concept briefed to Congress late that year. This developed into a project known as Seaplane The strike element was to be provided by a large, jet-powered seaplane. Martin won the contract in October 1952, and its Sea Master (XP6M-1) first flew in July 1955. The aircraft had four engines placed atop a high-mounted swept-back wing, tip tanks, and a horizontal stabilizer located atop the vertical stabilizer. Martin encountered numerous problems with engines, vibration, and controls and suffered the loss of two experimental aircraft. Nevertheless the com- pany went on to build six service test mod- els (YP6M-1) and eight production models (P6M-2). The latter had a gross weight of 160,000 pounds and a top speed of almost six hundred knots at sea level.13 Cost escalation and technical problems undercut SSF, and at the same time the Nav