got the go-ahead. The Valiant was distinguished by its swept wing positioned high on the fuselage, large oval (later "spectacle") intakes positioned on the leading edge near the wing roots, bulging dome cockpit, and four engines buried in the wing. The three V-bombers shared two common elements: a lack of defensive armament and a questionable crew escape system. As with the other V-bombers, the Valiant designers originally planned a jet- tisonable cockpit for emergency purposes, but this proved impractical for struc- tural reasons. Instead all three V-bombers provided the pilots with ejection seats, while the other crewmembers were to exit through the entry hatch. This was con- troversial throughout the service of these aircraft as there was a clear difference in sur- vival rates between those who used and did not use ejection seats in egress. The Valiant made its maiden flight in May 1951.The Valiant program was hindered by the crash of the first article, aileron flutter, and acous- tic cracks in the rear fuselage; nevertheless the RAF began receiving the new bomber in February 1955. Two dozen Valiants flew 131 sorties and delivered 942 tons of bombs during the week long October 1956 Suez operation. The aircraft's bombing and navigation equipment did not perform well in the Valiant's only combat operation and it is an understatement to note that "Suez did little to enhance the prestige of the Brit- ish bomber force."31 However, the aircraft The Avro Vulcan first flew in August 1952 and entered service five years later. It served as a nuclear deterrent throughout most of its service and flew five very long distance missions in the Falklands War. (National Museum of the USAF) The June 1948 specification for which the Valiant unsuccessfully competed was for a medium bomber capable of carrying a O  202 CHAPTER 8 BETWEEN KOREA AND VIETNAM The Vulcans were slated to leave RAF service by the end of June 1982, but hostili- ties in the far off Falklands Islands intruded. Fo