finder Force, which led RAF bombing raids and played a major role in increasing bombing accuracy. The idea of forming a unit of select crews emerged as early as February 1941, and the Shaker tactics and the shortage of Gee equipment helped push its formation. The unit did not enter combat until August 1942 because Harris opposed the idea, contending that it would create a corps d'élite at the expense of the morale of the rest of his command and was The Pathfinders and the new tactics bore results, albeit modest at first. From March to August 1942 night combat photography indicated that 35 percent of the bombers bombed within three miles of the center of the concentration of bombing, and from August 1942 to March 1943 this increased to more than 50 percent. Now the task was getting that concentration over the intended target for during the first period only 32 percent of the bombers were within three miles of the aiming point, while during the second the figure was 37 percent.  CHAPTER 4 BRITISH STRATEGIC BOMBING Offensive Bomber Equipment and Methods The combatants engaged in a lethal race to best use electronic equipment while not giving the opponent an advantage that could be exploited. The interests of the offensive (Bomber Command) had to be balanced against the interests of the defense (Fighter Command and the Royal Navy). The British tended to be conservative, emphasizing how the device might be used against them over the offensive advantages, despite the growing gap between the offen- sive capabilities of the RAF and the GAF. This combined with a late start meant that Bomber Command did not get significant electronic countermeasures (ECM) into combat until the end of 1942. In December 1942 the bombers began to use their Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) equipment to jam the German plot- ting radar (Wurzburg), a process known as Shiver. (In turn the Germans homed in on British IFF, until the RAF learned of the German technique through broken Ger- man codes, U