Rolling Thunder had caused severe strain in the North, overall it was a net benefit to the government. Linebacker I The Vietnam War was just a bad memory for most Americans by the early 1970s. The U.S. military personnel in South Vietnam had peaked above half a million in April 1969 and by March 1972 had fallen below one hundred thousand, of which only six thousand were combat troops. The draft was history. The USAF had fewer than four hun- dred combat aircraft in theater, and the South Vietnamese flew more than three-quarters of the four thousand Allied air strikes flown in South Vietnam in February 1972. Allied reconnaissance and intelligence detected signs of an upcoming North Viet- namese offensive in 1971, but as with the 1968 Tet Offensive, the timing and extent were misjudged. The North Vietnamese blow fell early on March 30, 1972. What is important to emphasize is that this was a massed conventional invasion that eventually involved almost the entire North Vietnam- ese army, uniformed regular forces, not guerrillas. These Communist units employed a full range of modern equipment with the conspicuous exception of aircraft. How would the United States react? The situation had drastically changed from what it had been in the 1960s. There was a different administration in Washington; perhaps more important, the Chinese and Soviets had less interest in the Vietnam War and were seeking to work out an arrange- ment with the Americans, which the administration was able to exploit. When the invasion exploded, this diplomatic effort had progressed to the point where the president had met with the Chinese in Beijing in February and was scheduled to meet with  220 CHAPTER 9 THE 1960S AND 1970S the Communists' assault began to falter, and the South Vietnamese began small counter attacks. There was some movement in July toward hitting airfields and later rail yards in the North, but SAC presented a wider plan in September. As the Communist drive stalled, diplomatic activi