ive years after World War II, where the B-29 was clearly the outstanding bomber; jet fight- ers rendered it obsolete. The capabilities of the MiG-15 and the difficulties of the B-29s demonstrated the tough conditions American prop bombers would have faced had they been launched against the Soviet homeland. The future of bombers was tied to jet propulsion. The RAF's Last Prop Bombers The British modified their best heavy bomber of World War II, the Avro Lancaster, during that war for operations against Japan, modifications that justified a new designa- tion: Lincoln. It looked like its predecessor, but it was larger, heavier, better armed, and, most of all, had more powerful engines, giving it superior performance. It first flew in June 1944. The bomber went into service in 1945 and saw combat, albeit not strategic operations, against insurgents in Kenya, Malaya, and Yemen. Bomber Command received 529 Lincolns between 1945 and March 1951, and the bomber left British service in March 1963 after its last duties in an electronics unit. (It also flew in both  as lock . 176 CHAPTER 7 THE POSTWAR ERA 177 1946, despite widespread wartime coopera- tion with the UK. The American move was prompted by suspicions of the socialist gov- ernment, which initially was friendly toward the Soviets (and had sold them their most modern jet engine), revelations of Russian spies in Britain, and traditional American antipathy toward the British. This encour- aged the British to build their own bomb despite the great expense and poor condi- tion of the British economy. In October 1952 the British exploded their first atomic bomb. The cooling of relations and lack of cooperation was brief, world events pulled the two countries toward one another and by the end of the decade the United States amended its policy, allowing the two allies to cooperate in nuclear weapons development. Australian and Argentine colors.) In the words of one author, the "Lincoln was effec- tive, reliable and popular wi