and in their war with Iran. The last were destroyed in the 1991 Gulf War. The Soviets licensed the Chinese to build the bomber in September 1957, and in December 1968 a Chinese-built Badger flew for the first time. In one decade the Chinese built over 120, exporting some to Egypt and Iraq. contemporary of the B-58. It had a relatively long fuselage compared to the span of its delta wing, a conventional empennage, and contrary to the normal Soviet designs which buried engines in the wing roots, mounted four engines on the wing, two on underslung pylons and two on the wing tips. The bomber made its maiden flight in October 1959. But the aircraft encountered aerodynamic problems as well as competi- tion from Tupolev's Tu-22 and was cancelled in December 1960. Only a few were built, and these made but twenty-three flights. Just as the Tu-16 was a contemporary and rival of the B-47, The Myasishchev M-4 Bison was the same for the B-52, although much less successful. Its development began in the early 1950s with its initial flight in January 1953. The swept-wing Bison was powered by four jet engines buried in the wing roots, and like the B-52 it had a tandem landing gear and outrigger wheels (in this case mounted on the wing tips). It exceeded its speed requirement but fell short of the range requirement. Nevertheless, production began in 1955. In 1956 some were converted to tanker duties to refuel Badgers and other Bisons. Attempts to add air-to-surface missiles to the bomber failed because of the landing gear arrangement. A modification with more powerful engines helped satisfy the basic range requirement, and along with aerial refueling gave it intercontinental range. The Soviets made a few further modifications that employed different engines and permitted both bomb- ing and tanker duties. Bison production stopped in 1963 after the Russians had built 93. The bombers remained in service into the late 1980s when they were removed in accordance with arms-control agreement