the majority of the air action was in sup- port of the ground battle, Soviet aircraft did bomb rear areas and Finnish cities with little success and considerable problems. The Finns also launched a number of raids on Soviet bases in Estonia. Thus the Soviet air force, which began the 1930s as one of the premier air forces in the world, and which had led the way with modern fighters and bombers, ended the decade in obsolescence, highlighted by being outfought by a much smaller power. This conflict may have led the Germans to underestimate the strength of the Soviets at the same time alerting the Communists to their own weakened state. The Soviets were involved in other air operations preceding World War II. The Japanese invaded Manchuria in 1931 and then other parts of China in 1937. Although the Japanese fielded a superior air force, the Chinese did raid Formosa in December 1938 and get B-10s over Hiroshima, but The Russians made territorial demands on the Finns in 1939 to bolster the western  GERMAN STRATEGIC BOMBARDMENT chapter 3 German Strategic Bombardment LIMITED EFFORTS 47 Germany had the largest airline industry in Europe, flying almost twice as many passen- ger miles as France, their closest competitor, a position it held until the war. Civil avia- tion allowed the Germans to train aircrews, develop modern aircraft, introduce radio navigation aids, pioneer aircraft instruments, and push forward in the areas of night and bad weather flying, all areas critical to a strategic bombing force. 46 craft, and medium bombers. This air force, especially the bombers, was intended to impress the world with its numbers and act as a deterrent to shield German rearmament. The 1935 program called for the Do 17, He 111, and Ju 86 to equip bomber units. The German buildup was aided by the coinci- dental rapid advances in aviation technology after a decade of relative stagnation. Thus the Luftwaffe was not burdened with a large inventory of obsolete aircraft in the wake of the