defense. The bomber featured two innovations that improved performance, a blending of the wing into the fuselage, which brought the advantages of both aerodynamics and radar reduction, and two small moveable fins ("whiskers") mounted beneath the cockpit, which automatically dampened out the ride at low altitudes and thus minimized fatigue for both crew and airframe. There were problems with the engines and escape system,1 as well as delays, increasing costs, and the threat of alternative bomber options. The bomber survived these challenges, although in December 1976 the Air Force announced a B-1 production decision that reduced the buy to between 120 and 150. Politics was a major part of the B-1 saga. Some have asserted that the government chose North American Rockwell not for technical reasons but to preserve the indus- trial base (Rockwell did not have a major defense contract while its two competitors did) and electoral politics (major economic benefits would go to southern California, always a key state). To generate support for the bomber, Rockwell subcontracted lucra- tive contracts to five thousand companies in forty-eight states despite the costs in money, quality, and efficiency. This led to wide congressional support for the bomber in contrast to the caution, if not hostility, of the executive branch. The B-1 had to deal with a number of challenges and problems. The first was the air-launched cruise missile, which allowed bombers to launch their weapons outside an enemy's main air defenses. While SAC had The Air Force was divided on whether to procure the B-1 or wait for a stealth bomber, so by the early 1980s it pushed for both, 100 B-1s and 132 stealth bombers. In President Ronald Reagan quickly revived the B-1. The reconstituted June 1977 President Jimmy Carter decided to buy only the stealth bomber, although Rockwell was allowed to build and test four bomber looked like, and had 85 percent common construction with, the B-1A. The U.S. Air Force accepted