arch 1945 This was packaged with the idea of also using Aleutian and Siberian bomber bases along with fighter escort bases in the Bon- ins. In December 1943 the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) approved a plan that initially would use the advanced bases in China sup- ported by bases in Calcutta to begin opera- tions in March and tentatively approved basing in the Marianas, scheduled for seizure in October, with operations beginning by the end of the year. This was the plan that was followed, with the March 1944 modifi- cation that advanced the Marianas assault up to mid-June 1944. schedule with serious gaps in high-altitude and long-range operations, the core of the B-29's proposed tactics. In training only 10 percent of the gunners fired the guns as the wing had received only two B-29s with the central fire-control system and no radar training was conducted as there were neither radar equipped aircraft nor radar operators. The situation with the ground crews was about the same. Consequently the unit shipped out having completed less than half of its prescribed training. This is typical of a wartime situation, the ideal versus the practical, although Curtis LeMay later noted that although B-29 training was poor, it was better than what was given to those who served in the European war. The bombers posed additional dif- ficulties, for the Superforts that arrived at the four midwestern training fields in the middle of February were hardly ready for deployment, much less for combat. Numer- ous modifications had to be made, radar had to be installed, and engines had to be changed. The air move was slipped half a month as the airmen launched an all-out effort to prepare the bombers for combat. The obstacles were many: few hangars, a shortage of parts, an inadequate number of experienced personnel, winter weather, threats of a strike, and friction with the civil- ian workers. Moving into Battle The AAF planned to begin operations with the XXth Bomber Command, consisting o