ore the Wrights's first flight.26 In the early 1930s the world community discussed general disarmament, and the British made several attempts to abolish aerial bom- bardment. These efforts got hung up on questions of converting civil transports into bombers and the desires of France and Italy to retain bombers for use in their African colonies and then were dashed when the Germans bolted from the conference. During the same time frame, the devel- opment of strategic bombing in the United States was hindered by the Army's tactical support requirements, restricted funds, and public belief in a "defensive war only" The interwar years were lean for the U.S. military, especially for the airmen who were developing a rapidly evolving and expensive technology. Nevertheless great strides were  CHAPTER 2 98 THE INTERWAR YEARS fighter aircraft to later views of attacks on "vital centers" with an air force built around the bomber. In January 1920 Mitchell wrote of hitting nerve centers at the start of a war, the next year he included bombing industry for both physical and psychological purposes, and later he held that population centers would be attacked. He predicted that in future wars entire cities would be destroyed by aerial gas attacks. As early as 1922 he held that a proper air force could win a war by itself and later (1930) that the air arm could bring "quick decisions." Mitchell believed that the bombers would require fighter escort and that antiaircraft artillery was futile. He is notable as a symbol and polemicist rather than as a thinker and theorist. So where did the Americans form their strategic bombing doctrine? made with both hardware and doctrine. But before focusing in on the mainstream of American doctrinal development, a discus- sion of the most famous American military aviator of the interwar period is in order. William "Billy" Mitchell (1879-1936) enlisted in the Army during the Spanish American War and later learned to fly at the relatively advanced age