ived, although for the next number of years they were besieged by U boats, bombed by the Luftwaffe, and beaten up by German ground forces around the Mediterranean. Between the evacuation from Dunkirk and the D day invasion, air power provided the only major British offensive action in northern Europe. The air war that ensued was not the quick, cheap, decisive war prophesized by the interwar writers and theorists; instead, the conflict devolved into a battle of attri- tion, a long, costly, high-tech version of the trench warfare of the previous world war. Tens of thousands of military and hundreds of thousands of civilians died in this air battle before the Germans went down in defeat. The Interwar Years The new British air service, the Royal Air Force, had contributed to the final victory and ended World War I as the world's largest air force. However, the airmen's strategic bombing effort had been limited, although it would have been much greater had the war continued. The RAF declined drasti- cally following the Armistice, and for a time its very fate was in doubt. The RAF emphasized bombardment aviation, the ability to deter any enemy with a bomber force or attack an enemy's home- land if necessary. In practical terms the new service proved its worth by colonial policing, which was cheaper than the long used puni- tive expeditions: Economy was the watch 69 word during the interwar years. The ten- year rule, adopted by Britain in 1919, fore- cast that there would be no major European war for ten years, allowed the military to be reduced, hindered the development of the RAF, and continued for more than a decade. Nevertheless the status of the bomber is clearly seen in the Salisbury committee report approved by the Air Ministry in 1925, which recommended that two-thirds of the RAF's fifty-two squadrons be equipped with bombers. These policies, along with the need to economize, led the British to field a number of single- and twin-engine biplanes that looked and perf