sed direct destruc- tion as well as loss of production due to the dispersal effort, output would have been much higher. This understates the impact The overall conclusion of USSBS was that "Allied air power was decisive in the war in western Europe."34 This bold statement was much to the likening of the airmen and has come to mean to many that air power was the most important factor in winning the war. On reflection, however, credit hinges on the definition of"decisive." Certainly air power was important to Allied victory, but it was just one of several factors that won the war. In the European theater the principal agent of victory was the Soviet army, which severely drained the German army. (Two- thirds of German military fatalities were on the Russian front.) The Allies employed equivalent technology and overwhelming numbers of men and machines to defeat the overstretched Germans. In hindsight it appears that the connection of air power  CHAPTER 5 U.S. STRATEGIC BOMBING IN EUROPE of this bombing because the Luftwaffe rose to protect the aviation industry and in so doing suffered heavy losses. To be clear, the Germans had a lot of aircraft in the clos- ing months of the war and jets superior in performance to Allied aircraft. The GAF was defeated by the attrition of its fighter pilots fighting a multifront war and the decline of the quality of its pilot training graduates mainly due to a lack of fuel. German timing was faulty as the great flow of aircraft came after the decisive air battle had been fought and lost. A second major accomplishment of strategic bombing was to cut off German oil. Because the Germans were short of oil, they cut the length of their flying training program by early 1943, so that as the war continued British and American pilots had increasingly more flying training hours than the Germans. Oil shortages also drastically restricted the mobility of the German army, forcing German units to employ animal power to move equipment.35 By mid-1944 f