.7 billion dollars, the most expensive weapons program of the war, including the atomic bomb project. Prior to the war the airmen devoted little to no attention to fire bombing and did not develop an effective incendiary weapon. Yet in 1934 an airman's student paper at the army's Command and General Staff School proposed that instead of matching Japan's army head on, "the tremendous striking power of an air force [should be] directed at the paper cities of congested Japan."6 Three years later the chief of the Air Corps, Oscar Westover, noted that Japan knew of the power of fires following earthquakes and that incendiary bombing of her "tinderbox  CHAPTER 6 RAZING JAPAN contrast to his 1939 appeal to all combat- ants to spare civilians from bombing. The scheme received a mixed reception and was dropped. Chennault did not give up on the concept, however, writing Roosevelt again in May 1941, once more getting a warm response from the president, and again a negative reaction from the War Department. This brought the U.S. Navy into the picture. Roosevelt ordered the Navy to study the idea of carrier attacks, presumably with incendiaries, on Japan. This was well outside the sea service's capabilities because it did not even have incendiary bombs until August 1941 and did not get adequate stocks of them until summer 1942. The Navy had ear- lier considered flying boat attacks on Japan, but by February 1940 it realized its PBYs were inadequate for such operations. cities" would equal many such quakes. To be clear, these were the exceptions, for Air Corps Tactical School lectures in the late 1930s emphasized the power of precision attacks on Japanese targets. In brief, Ameri- can airmen recognized Japanese vulner- ability to fire bombing, nevertheless they planned on conducting precision bombing. Changing Views on How to Fight in the Pacific Theater When war erupted in Europe, airmen thinking about the Pacific problem thought in terms of the American strategic bombers as a de