mon systems (bombing and navigation, air-to-surface missiles, bomber defenses, decoys, and engines) would now fall entirely on the B-70 program. The money crunch was such that Headquarters redirected the program in December 1959 from an operational wing to a single test aircraft. Despite the promised performance and technical success, a number of factors under- cut the giant aircraft. Costs spiraled at the same time the bomber's strategic importance declined with the advent of interconti- nental and sea-launched ballistic missiles. Soviet defensive improvements, especially the appearance of SAMs, made high-speed and high-altitude tactics untenable. This was known by the Air Force when North American won the contract in late 1957. There are some who would claim the suc- cess of the Mach 3 SR-70 reconnaissance aircraft indicates that the B-70 would have been a viable bomber. But this overlooks the fact that the B-70 was a much larger aircraft, and certainly not designed with stealth in mind as was the SR-70. Then the bomber got entangled in politics. Eisenhower was for economy and not especially for bombers, likening them in the missile age to bows and arrows in the age of gunpowder. The B-70 became an issue in the 1960 election. Presi- dential candidate John Kennedy repeatedly advocated bombers in general and the B-70 The aircraft was not only large but also unique.29 It mounted a canard control surface forward of the cockpit, a delta wing with a very sharp sweep back, and twin vertical stabilizers at the wing's trailing edge. Six side-by-side engines underneath the rear fuselage and wing powered the B-70. At high speeds the wing tips could be deflected downward to 60 or so degrees to increase stability as well as add 5 percent to lift. The bomber was to be manned by a crew of four and carry only ECM for defense. 199 in particular. He criticized the Republicans for their neglect of bombers and stated, "I wholeheartedly endorse the B-70 manned aircraft."30 Nevertheles