as more successful. It began as a two-engine design; however, questions as to the availabil- ity of the Rolls Royce Vulture engine led to the use of four Rolls Royce Merlin engines. The bomber made its initial flight in Octo- ber 1939 and entered combat in March 1941. The production model was defended by nose and tail turrets, mounting respec- tively two and four .303-caliber machine guns. (The paradox is that the British led the world with power gun turrets but armed them with the inadequate rifle caliber .303 machine guns, which were markedly inferior to the .50-caliber machine guns and cannons they faced.)14 Its light armament led to the addition of a two-gun dorsal turret in the Halifax II series. However, the added drag of the top turret combined with lim- ited engine power adversely affected flying performance. More serious was the aircraft's tendency to enter uncontrollable spins at heavy weights, which increased accidents. Harris described the Halifax as a "virtual failure," citing its vulnerability, poor perfor- mance, vicious handling, and unsatisfactory exhaust flame dampening. To remedy some of these problems the manufacturer replaced the nose turret with a single gun and the top turret with a lower drag four-gun unit. The company made other changes as well that increased both maximum and cruising speed by 10 percent in the Halifax B. Mk.II The Stirling made its maiden flight in May 1939 and was destroyed on landing, not a bright omen. Production difficulties and German air raids delayed the aircraft's combat debut until February 1941.The ini- tial design was armed with four .303-caliber machine guns in the tail and twin .303-cali- ber machine guns in a power nose and retractable ventral turret. (The manufacturer removed the latter on operational bombers, but added twin guns in a dorsal turret and two hand-held beam guns.) The Stirling proved able to absorb punishment, but it was outperformed by both the Halifax and Lan- caster. The Stirling was at a gre