two American intermediate-range ballistic missiles, the Army's Jupiter and the Air Force's Thor (shown here). The two were similar in construction and performance. Both were deployed, the Jupiter in Italy and Turkey, and the Thor in Britain, and both were dismantled as part of the agreement that ended the Cuban Missile Crisis. (USAF) Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missiles Development of the Titan II was approved by the secretary of the Air Force in September 1959. It was considerably different than its predecessor: 10 percent At about the same time the Air Force began developing the Titan, the United States was HOR -  248 CHAPTER 10 however. The Jupiter was a mobile missile, and secondary sources list its CEP as .9 miles compared with the Thor's 2 miles. The Army turned over the first operational Jupiter to the USAF in August 1958 the same liquid-fueled Navaho engine. In 1951 the USAF, concerned over the vulner- ability of its Matador missile, ordered the development of a tactical-range (initially six hundred to one thousand miles, then in 1955 increased to twelve hundred to fifteen hundred miles) ballistic missile. The Air Force selected Douglas to build the missile in December 1955. To speed its progress the program used the Atlas' booster, guidance system, and reentry vehicle. This should have eased the road for the Thor, but the Air Force adopted the risky procedure of con- currency, as it had with both the Atlas and Titan, in the race to field the missile before its two rivals, the Russians and the Army. MISSILES 249 The two IRBMs were quickly deployed overseas. The British-based Thor became operational in June 1959, while the Jupiter became operational in Italy in July 1960 and in Turkey in April 1962.ยบ The missiles worked under a dual key arrangement, with the missile manned by crews of the host nation and the warheads under U.S. control. The two missiles were only briefly in service, for as part of the resolution of the Cuban Missile Crisis and with the intr