t doubled its service ceiling from fifteen thousand to over thirty-five thousand feet and gave it a top speed of 250 miles per hour, which enabled it to outrun German Bf 109Bs and He 112s  CHAPTER 2 32 THE INTERWAR YEARS question was how to use this new weapon. The postwar consensus emphasized air power's role in the support of armies and navies. Nevertheless, some airmen believed the airplane could do much more and insisted the war had ended before their ideas could be demonstrated. A few even claimed that attacks on the enemy's rear areas could, by themselves, be decisive-a concept that became the basis of strategic bombing theory. at altitude. But by adding weight (two tons) and reducing volume, it cut both range and bomb load. The bomber was protected by twin 7.62-mm guns in the nose, a single 12.7-mm gun in the rear of each of the inboard engine nacelles, and one 20-mm cannon each in a tail and a dorsal turret. Versions built during the war included one with diesel engines, an arrangement that increased range but decreased speed and ceiling, and another that went into production in 1943 without the nacelle guns. The latter could achieve a maximum speed of 280 mph and a range of thirty- seven hundred miles. An indication of the Soviet focus is that they built fewer than 150 Pe-8s, removed the bomber from produc- tion in 1944, and that long-range bombing consumed only 4 percent of their air force effort during World War II. 33 A number of individuals in different countries laid out this theory, the most famous being a Briton, Hugh Trenchard; an Italian, Giulio Douhet; and an American, Billy Mitchell. Although these men and their ideas received considerable attention, the basic concept of bombing cities and civilians was most memorably put forth by British prime minister Stanley Baldwin, who summed up the concept of strategic air warfare in 1932 when he told members of Parliament, "There is no power on earth that can protect [the civilian] from bombing, whatever p