esults with the existing techniques. The AAF had directed test incendiary raids that were conducted under both Hansell and LeMay. These six missions flown at high altitude, both day and night, yielded incon- clusive results, albeit the last on February 25 destroyed or damaged one square mile of Tokyo. LeMay deserves considerable credit for implementing the new tactics, clearly one of the boldest command decisions of the war, yet it should be emphasized that these ideas emanated from a number of individuals. In brief the radical concept consisted of flying at low altitude (below ten thousand feet), at night, in solo attacks, initially without armament, dropping only incendiaries, and aiming to burn out Japanese cities. The raid on Tokyo was not a fluke; it could and would be repeated. For the XXIst Bomber Command proceeded to burn down all but one of Japan's major cities, and many more as well. In the next ten days the B-29s hit Nagoya (Japan's third largest city) twice, Osaka (second largest), and Kobe (sixth largest), in all destroying thirty-two square miles of urban area. In this short period the B-29s destroyed 41 percent of the urban area destroyed dur- ing the entire air war against Germany. The bombing stopped when the XXIst Bomber Command ran out of incendiar- ies and because the air and ground crews were exhausted. American casualties were low, twenty-two bombers lost, only three to enemy action, for a loss rate of 1.5 percent. The B-29 effort was now hitting its stride as more aircraft and crews reinforced the effort and more experienced ground crews and lower altitudes improved serviceability, allowing the unit to get more than three hundred bombers over Japan on each mis- sion. Lower altitude operations also permit- ted the bomb loads to more than double the average of three tons in November and December. The first of 325 bombers took off in the late afternoon of March 9, 1945, for Tokyo. The weather was clear as the bombs began to fall early the next mo