r Henry Kissinger was hesitant. Nevertheless the president made up his mind and ordered the bomb- ing. Unlike Linebacker I, which was aimed at the North's war making capability, this bombing intended to break the will of the North Vietnamese by hitting targets in the The Air Force sent all of its convention- ally configured B-52Ds to the theater as well as one hundred B-52Gs. The B-52G had a range advantage over the "D" model, allowing it to complete a mission from Guam without aerial refueling, while the "D" required at least one refueling. This advantage was counterbalanced by the fact that the "D" had been modified for con- ventional warfare, which allowed it to carry many more bombs both internally ("Big Belly" modification) as well as with racks for external carriage: thirty tons versus "only" nine tons on the "G."There was also a ques- tion concerning the B-52G's vulnerability compared to its older teammate because of its lighter structure and "wet" wing, and  lock CHAPTER 9 222 THE 1960S AND 1970S two hundred SAMs and downed three Boeing bombers on the first night. MiGs attacked the bombers, one of which was claimed destroyed by a B-52 tail gunner. On the second night the North Vietnamese fired over 180 SAMs, but there were no losses. The third night was much different. The USAF launched ninety-nine sorties, of which ninety were effective, and lost six bombers, all to SAMs. When SAC learned of the loss of three bombers in the first wave, it considered canceling the two in-bound waves. Such a move would have major consequences; therefore, the chief of staff of the Air Force and the JCS weighed in on the issue. In the end the decision mak- ers considered the loss of SAC's perceived ability to penetrate enemy defenses more important than possible B-52 losses. (A mat- ter of pride was also involved as no AAF/ USAF mission had ever been turned back by fear of losses.) as only half the "G" models had the most advanced electronic jammers. Another self-inflicted woun