y if it had only been used at the beginning of the conflict. But to be clear, while Linebacker I was a clear success, air power playing a major role in defeat- ing a ground assault, Linebacker II gained the same terms as what had been agreed to in October. It did demonstrate American resolve (certainly Nixon's) and did reassure the South Vietnamese. However, what is overlooked is that the diplomatic situation had radically changed from the beginning of the war. In 1965 there were genuine fears that American actions might trigger a response from the Chinese or Soviets that would spill over the borders and enlarge the problem. Freed of these worries, the 1972 actions were less restrained. Most often overlooked is how close Linebacker II came to failure. The bombing achieved its objectives of getting the North Vietnamese back to the peace table and an agreement was signed at the end of January. During Linebacker II American airmen dropped twenty thousand tons of bombs (three-quarters by the B-52s) on 708 B-52, 657 Air Force tactical, and 505 naval sorties.7 Civilian casualties were remarkably light considering the intensity of the operation, a result of planning, luck, and Vietnamese evacuations. The North Vietnamese claim that nineteen hundred civilians were killed, a very small number since World War II experience would predict a loss of ten thousand to forty thousand lives from this bomb tonnage. The cost, according to U.S. sources, was twenty-seven Ameri- can aircraft, of which fifteen were B-52s downed by SAMs. (SAC had predicted a higher toll, the loss of 3 percent of the attackers.)8 The North Vietnamese claim to have downed eighty-one American aircraft, of which thirty-four were B-52s (all but four of these attributed to SAMs). During the entire war the USAF lost seventeen Boeing bombers in combat, wrote off two due to battle damage, and lost another dozen to operational causes. SAC flew almost 125,500 sorties, of which only 6 percent were over North Vietnam. A