er encountered by the aviation industry: flaw- less holes had to be drilled, but fatigue tests in 1968 found cracks at less than half their expected life. Even the windshield proved inadequate. Drag and weight estimates were excessively optimistic, with weight rising from the specified sixty-nine thousand pounds to almost eighty-six thousand pounds. The net result was that the aircraft did not achieve its specified performance. Maximum speed declined from Mach 2.5 to Mach 2.2, takeoff distance increased 28 percent, landing roll increased 3 percent, and ferry range fell 34 percent. A number of crashes, eight by May 1968, did not help the aircraft's reputation. The F-111A first flew in December 1964. It was not a pretty aircraft on the ground and was nicknamed "Aardvark" because of its long nose. In flight it was a much different story in both appearance and fact, for it had outstanding perfor- mance and for all of its problems and critics, the crews loved it. Most visible, and most important, was its variable swept wing. The wing was moved full forward for takeoff and landings, rearward to obtain best cruise performance, and full rearward for maximum speed. The F-111 was the first military aircraft to use turbofan engines, two boosted by afterburners. But there were other technological features as well. GD fitted it with an escape capsule in place of ejection seats. This system could operate from zero air speed up to at least 800 knots, one hundred knots higher than the B-58's similar system. Another new technology was the terrain following radar system that permitted the bomber to fly at high speeds as low as two hundred feet, although more typically at five hundred feet above ground level, regardless of the hour or weather. This would give the crew a tremendous advan- tage in penetrating enemy defenses. The F-111 entered combat in March 1968 in an operation code named Combat Lancer. The Air Force had high hopes for the new bomber as it promised to deliver bombs mor