wo jets under the wing of one of the XB-42, an aircraft redesignated XB-42A. The jets caused problems yet could push the plane to a top speed of 488 mph. It would seem easier to add two externally mounted engines than replace the internally mounted piston engines with jets, but that was not the case. For the hybrid-powered aircraft did not make its first flight until May 1947, after the all-jet XB-43.The XB-43 was the first U.S. all-jet bomber to take flight, making its initial flight in May 1946. During these early tests the XB-43 achieved a top speed of 515 mph and indicated it would meet the perfor- mance requirements with the exception of takeoff and landing roll. Flight tests revealed airframe problems, however. Most troubling were cracking of the Plexiglas nose and bug The airmen developed a number of other jet bombers during this period, now mostly forgotten because only two went into service. Convair's B-46 was a beautiful aircraft that featured slender, very clean lines on its long fuselage and long, straight wing and a three-man crew with the pilots seated in tandem. It was powered by four engines mounted in two nacelles underneath the wing and made its maiden flight in April 1947. Convair's bomber had two major drawbacks, however. Its slender fuselage provided little room for equipment and bombs, and because it was heavier and had the same power as the B-45, it offered less performance. In addition, it encountered difficulties with engines and control surfaces during testing. The airmen cancelled the XB-46 in August 1947.  182 CHAPTER 8 BETWEEN KOREA AND VIETNAM The Martin B-48 also emerged from the AAF's August 1944 requirement. Compared with the B-46 it was chunkier in appear- ance, shorter in span and length, heavier, and powered by six engines mounted in two nacelles beneath its wing. The Martin bomber incorporated a number of unique features: a tandem main landing gear along with outrigger gear in the engine nacelles, a horizontal bomb bay that utili