mainland and redeployed their best jet fighters to defend strategic targets in the homeland. (The British considered such attacks but decided instead to keep the war limited to the Falk- lands.) The Vulcans also flew two missions trolling for Argentine radars, using Shrike antiradiation missiles that caused some minor damage. The second of these resulted in one bomber landing and being interned in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, when a damaged refueling probe prevented aerial refueling. the last ordered and featured a large wing with a curved leading edge, four engines buried in the wing root, and a horizontal stabilizer mounted atop the vertical tail. The "crescent" wing was a novel approach, combining the advantages of a swept-back and delta-wing form without their disad- vantages. The bomber made its first flight in December 1952 and entered combat service in April 1958. In March 1962 the RAF modified the first Victor as a receiver for aerial refueling and in 1964 converted some of the initial versions (Victor B.1) to tanker duties, first with a two-point and later with a three-point system. The British retained a force on Ascension Island after the war that stretched the RAF tanker force. Therefore six Vulcans were converted to tanker duties between 1982 and 1984. The RAF began to retire the Vulcans (Mk. 1) in 1966 and the Mk. 2s in 1981. Avro built forty-five Mk 1s and eighty-nine Mk 2s. The Handley Page Victor was the most sophisticated of the three V-bombers. It was The builder mounted an extended wing and bigger engines on the B.2 version, which went to the first operational unit in February 1962. Both versions could employ the Blue Steel ASM. One advantage the Victor had over its two older siblings was  204 CHAPTER 8 BETWEEN KOREA AND VIETNAM O O its larger bomb bay and capacity to carry a greater bomb load. (It also had an altitude advantage over the Vulcan.) The Victor began to leave the bomber role in 1968 to take up tanker duties. The Mark 2 Victor had a ceilin