rk. In January 1949 SAC ran a practice mission against Dayton, Ohio, using pictures from 1938 (about the currency of most information the USAF had on Soviet targets), "bomb- ing" from thirty thousand feet (as opposed to the customary fifteen thousand feet), and not using radar reflectors on the target, which made target identification much easier and had been the procedure in the past. Thunderstorms in the area added an unplanned and realistic touch. Engines and radars failed, pressurization and oxygen did not work, and consequently results were poor. The average accuracy (CEP) of the bombers that made it to the target was 10,100 feet, far from precision bombing and considerably worse than the 1,500 feet the staff briefed. LeMay later wrote, "You might call that just about the darkest night in American military aviation history. Not one airplane finished that mission as briefed. Not one."5 A lot had to be done. Under LeMay's firm hand the command quickly improved its performance. During exercises against Oklahoma City (May 1950) and Omaha (October 1950), the accuracy was twice that recorded against Dayton. SAC became known for doing things by the book, the SAC book. One measure of success was the command's improved flying safety record. In 1948 SAC's major accident rate was 10 percent higher than the USAF's, dropping to less than half the USAF's rate by 1952, an advantage that command retained at least up through 1976. And for all the complaints from innovative, energetic airmen and outside critics, SAC's tight and disci- plined controls were appropriate to conserve resources and handle nuclear weapons. At the same time SAC was struggling to build up and improve its force of bombers and bombs, the military wrestled with the best way to employ strategic bombardment. The Soviet Union was a much more dif- ficult target than either Germany or Japan because of the greater distance between bases and targets, Russia's larger size, inad- equate maps, and poorer intelligence