ter Stanley Baldwin, who summed up the concept of strategic air warfare in 1932 when he told members of Parliament, "There is no power on earth that can protect [the civilian] from bombing, whatever people tell him. The bomber will always get through. .. . The only defense is the offense, which means you have got to kill more women and children than the enemy if you want to save yourselves."12 Thus the ideas that formed the core of the strategic bombing theory emerged during and soon after World War I:There was no way to stop the bombers, cities and civilians would be their targets, and these attacks on the enemy's homeland would be decisive. Airmen in numerous countries accepted and espoused these ideas. The French did less well. While they turned out a profusion of aircraft models, some with competitive performance, these arrived too late to be of any help in World War II. Development of heavy bombers was even slower due to lack of funds and a belief in multipurpose aircraft. The Bloch 162 developed from a line of four-engine trans- ports and was smaller, shorter legged, and faster than the B-17. But it did not make its first flight until June 1940.The C.A.O. 700 was about to make its maiden flight when the Armistice grounded all French aircraft. Giulio Douhet (1869-1930). Like his fel- low theorists he is more quoted and cited than read, but in contrast, his influence is much more in dispute. It appears that the American and British airmen constructed their theories independent of Douhet. Nevertheless, it is correct to comment that his writing, and especially his classic book The Command of the Air, "remains the most eloquent, elaborate, and compre- hensive theory of air power in the interwar period."13 One prominent military writer, however, has called Douhet the "prophet of the ridiculous."14 Douhet trained in the artillery arm and went on to serve on the Italian General Staff early in the twentieth century. After Italy's entry into World War I, Douhet pushed h