t systems were transport and coal. Transportation was neces- sary to move coal, the chief power source throughout the country. The dispersion of German industry as a consequence of the bombing made transportation more impor- tant, difficult, and expensive. The Germans had a large, well-organized transportation system that finally broke under the battering of Allied bombs. The bombing reduced German produc- tion in a number of ways. In the aircraft industry, for example, this was due to destruction of factories and machinery as well as death and disruption of the work force and the dispersion of the industry. The USSBS concluded that there was a 9 percent loss of overall production in 1943 127 and 17 percent loss the next year, while another source asserts that the Germans lost one-fifth of their production in the last sixteen months of the war. Bombing critics often note that German armament produc- tion peaked in July 1944. However, this fact should be evaluated against another: 72 percent of the bombs fell on Germany after July 1, 1944. Nevertheless, Germany did not suffer any significant equipment shortages because of the bombing. hundred bombers and sustained sixty-four thousand operational casualties. There were also opportunity costs, the alternate use these men and machines could have made. The commitment to air power (one-quarter to one-third of U.S. produc- tion went into aircraft, 40 percent of this into strategic bombers)36 was a major reason the United States limited its ground forces to ninety divisions in contrast to the much higher percentages fielded by the other major powers. One author has calculated that the resources involved in the strategic bombing forces were equivalent to twenty- five armored divisions and an adequate number of infantry replacements. (Even with the limited ground forces, the United States was running short of infantry replace- ments in late 1944, prompting combing out of training, ground, and air units.) Or what if the strate