r more unit ing individuals to association. Society is division and asso- ciation of labor. In the final analysis, there is no conflict of interest between society and the individual, as everyone can pursue his interests more efficiently in society than in isola- tion. The sacrifices the individual makes to society are 8. See Dietzel, "Individualismus," in Handwörterbuch, 4th ed., ch. V, p. 408 et sen A. Pribram, Die Entstehung der individualistichen Sozialphilosophie [The develop- ment of individualistic social philosophy], Leipzig, 1912, p. 1 et seq. For a critique of this view, see L. von Wiese, "Dietzel's 'Individualism' " in Kölner Vierteljahrs- hefte für Sozialwissenschaften [Cologne quarterly for social sciences], Munich and Leipzig, vol. II, 1922, p. 54 et seq. 112 merely temporary, surrendering a small advantage in order to attain a greater one. This is the essence of the often cited doctrine of the harmony of interests. The etatistic and socialistic critique never understood the "preestablished harmony" of the free trade school from Smith to Bastiat. Its theological appearance is not essential for the doctrine. Utilitarian sociology seeks to explain the development of society since man's presumably hermitic ex- istence in prehistoric times, or since his less developed cooperation in known history. It seeks to explain man's so- cial ties throughout history, and hopefully his future prog- ress toward association, from principles that are active in each individual. In accordance with teleological considera- tions, association is thought to be "good" and laudable. A faithful soul seeking an understanding of social develop- ment views the principle of association as a wise arrange- ment of God. It could not be different: goodness, namely, the division of labor now and in the future, emanates from human nature. It follows that the division of labor is a good means in view of its good results, even if from different points of view it should be viewed as evil, wea