le his reasoning actually is. He concludes, therefore, that the question of whether or not a given intervention is a "violation of economic law" is ba- sically "a question of degree." In the final analysis, Clark as- sures us, we must consider how severely the intervention affects production costs or market prices. The law of supply and demand is "no thing of precision and ir inexorable rigid- ity." Many times "a small change in costs of production" has no effect at all on final prices-when, for instance, the price is usually quoted in round numbers and the merchants absorb small changes in costs or wholesale prices. Clark's fi- nal word: "A large increase in wage rates may be a 'violation of economic law,' in the sense in which we are using the term, where a small increase would not be." 20 Upon careful reflection, Professor Clark yields to all the objections by those writers who call interventionism unsuit- able and illogical. It is obvious and undeniable that the quantitative consequences of an intervention depend on the severity of the intervention. A small earthquake destroys less than a big one, and a very small earthquake may leave no visible traces at all. It is utterly irrelevant that Clark nevertheless clings to the statement that such interventions can be made and advo- cated. He must admit that this leads to further measures in order to alleviate the consequences. For instance, when price controls are imposed, there must be a rationing in order to remove the discrepancy between supply and de- mand. And it will be necessary to stimulate production di- rectly because the normal impetus will be lost.21 At this point Clark unfortunately discontinues his discussion. Had he proceeded he would necessarily have come to the conclu- sion that there are only two alternatives: either to abstain from all intervention, or, if this is not the intention, to add ever new interventions in order to eliminate "the discrep- ancy between supply and demand which the public pol