an simply con- clude from the continuous formation of new capital and progressive application of machines and equipment- which is undoubtedly true in a capitalist economy-that the ratio of fixed costs will rise. But he must prove first that this is actually the case for the whole economy, not just for indi- vidual enterprises. In fact, continuing capital formation leads to a decline in the marginal productivity of capital and an increase in that of labor. The share that goes to capital de- clines, and that of labor rises. Schmalenbach did not con- sider this, which negates the very premise of his thesis.9 But let us also ignore this shortcoming and examine Schmalenbach's doctrine itself. Let us raise the question of 7. Ibid., p. 242 et seq. 8. Ibid., p. 243. 9. See Adolf Weber, Das Ende des Kapitalismus [The end of capitalism], Munich, 1929, p. 19. 64 65  whether a relative rise in fixed costs can actually precipitate entrepreneurial behavior that deprives the economy of its ability to adjust production to demand. Let us look at an enterprise that either from the start or be- cause of a changed situation does not come up to its earlier expectations. When it was built its founders hoped that the investment capital not only would be amortized and would yield the going rate of interest but, in addition, would pay a profit. Now it has turned out differently. The product price has fallen so much that it covers only a part of produc- tion costs-even without allowance for the costs of interest and amortization. A cutback in output cannot bring relief; it cannot make the enterprise profitable. The less it pro- duces, the higher will be the production costs per unit of output and the greater the losses from the sale of each unit (pursuant to our assumption that the fixed costs are very high relative to proportional costs, disregarding even the costs of interest and amortization). There is only one way out of the difficulty: to shut down entirely; only then can further losses