ory for some readers than those doctrines which offered nothing in his- tory but a hopeless struggle of a noble race against a suprem- acy of inferior races. He who sought to go even further in his optimism and was less exacting scientifically, found the solution to the conflict not just in the socialistic paradise of the future, but already in the "social kingdom." Marxism thus swayed German thought in sociology and philosophy of history. Popular German sociology adopted, above all, the class concept that is so basic to Marxian sociology. Spann cor- rectly observed: "Today, even so-called middle-class econo- mists are using the term 'class' in such a way and in connec- tion with such questions as are raised by the historical materialism of Marx."14 Adoption of this concept was ac- companied by the Marx and Engels characteristics of uncer- tainty, vagueness, and obscurity, further echoed by the Social-Democrat and Communist parties. During the thirty-five years between the publication of the Communist Manifesto and his death, Marx did not succeed in somehow defining the concept of class struggle more precisely. And it is significant that the posthumous manuscript of the third volume of Das Kapital halts abruptly at the very place that was to deal with classes. Since his death more than forty years have passed, and the class struggle has become the cornerstone of modern German sociology. And yet we con- 14. O. Spann, "Klasse und Stand" [Class and estate], Handwörterbuch, 4th ed., vol. V, p. 692. 117  tinue to await its scientific definition and delineation. No less vague are the concepts of class interests, class condition, and class war, and the ideas on the relationship between conditions, class interests, and class ideology For Marx and his parties, the interests of the individual classes are irreconcilably opposed to each other. Each class knows precisely what its class interests are and how to real- ize them. Therefore, there can only be warfare, or at best an a