p. 84.) What is the purpose of this "sleight of hand"? Banks were not interested in attracting so g sovereigns through the issue of notes. They were interested only in granting more credits through the is- sue of more notes and thereby raising their interest income. This "sleight of hand" was well known to banks, but not that mentioned by Marx. 42. Palyi, "Ungelöste Fragen der Geldtheorie" [Unsolved questions of monetary theory], vol. II, p. 514. 94 necessary (the "elasticity of circulation"), there can be no objection to the adoption of Solvay's monetary reform. Palyi's etatist position explains why he could not add a single word to the old mercantilist observations, and why his whole theory is limited to pointing at the selfish disposi- tion of the state's subjects, who should not be left to them- selves.43 Social liberalism could not share this etatist posi- tion. For better or worse it had to show how, according to its social ideal, the members of an exchange society cooper- ate without government assistance. But social liberalism never developed a comprehensive theory either. Some of its followers probably believed that the time was not yet ripe on account of insufficient preparation through collection of material; the majority probably never saw the need for a comprehensive theory at all. Wherever the need for theory arose, the social liberals usually borrowed from the classical system, mostly in the garb of Marxism. In this regard the so- cial liberals differed from the etatists, who preferred to fall back on the mercantilists. Nevertheless, social liberalism did seek to make an inde- pendent contribution to theory-a doctrine of wage rates. It could use neither classical theory nor modern theory. Marx very logically had denied that collective bargaining of labor unions could raise wages. Only Brentano and Webb sought to prove that collective bargaining can permanently raise the income of all workers; this theory is the principal doctrine of social liberalism.