bolished? The national problem is a world political problem, the greatest world problem in the foreseeable future. It concerns all nations, not just the German nation. During the eight- eenth and nineteenth centuries, when the English and French formulated modern political doctrines, it had a dif- ferent meaning for them than it has today. The first civilized country for which the national problem became important in its present form was Germany. It should have been the task of German political theory to deal with it and find a so- lution through practical politics. The British and French did not know all those problems of nationalism for which the formula of national self-determination does not suffice. Ger- man politics did face these problems for decades, and should have met the challenge by finding a solution. But German theory and practice could only proclaim the princi- ple of force and struggle. Its application isolated the German nation from the world, and led to its defeat in the Great War. Where the areas in which the German people settled meet with those occupied by the Danes, Lithuanians, Poles, Czechs, Hungarians, Croats, Slovaks, Italians, and French, the population borders are not clearly marked out. In wide 18. See O. Bauer, Die Nationalitätenfrage und die Sozialdemokratie [The nationality problem and social democracy], Vienna, 1907, pp. 263, 268. 121  sections the peoples are mixed, and individual linguistic is- lands, especially urban centers, reach far into foreign areas. Here the formula of "self-determination of nations" no longer suffices. For here are national minorities who fall under foreign rule if the majority principle determines polit- ical government. If the state is a liberal state under the rule of law, merely protecting the property and personal safety of its citizens, the alien rule is less palpable. It is felt more keenly the more society is governed, the more the state becomes a welfare state, the more etatism and socialism gain a