orces can determine prices. If government prevents this play in any way, pro- duction loses its meaning and becomes chaotic. Finally, government must assume control in order to avoid the chaos it created. Thus, we must agree with the classical liberals and some older socialists who believed it impossible in the private property order to eliminate the market influence on prices, and thereby on production and distribution, by decreeing prices that differ from market prices. For them it was no empty doctrinarism, but a profound recognition of social principles, when they emphasized the alternative: private property or public property, capitalism or socialism. In- deed, for a society based on division of labor there are only these two possibilities; middle forms of organization are conceivable only in the sense that some means of produc- tion may be publicly owned while others are owned pri- vately. But wherever property is in private hands, govern- ment intervention cannot eliminate the market price without simultaneously abolishing the regulating principle of production. 150 151  THE NATIONALIZATION OF CREDIT ?* Arthur Travers-Borgstroem, a Finnish writer, published a book entitled Mutualism that deals with ideas of social re- form, and culminates in a plea for the nationalization of credit. A German edition appeared in 1923. In 1917, the au- thor had established a foundation under his name in Berne, Switzerland, whose primary objective was the conferring of prizes for writings on the nationalization of credit. The panel of judges consisted of Professors Diehl, Weyermann, Milhaud, and Reichesberg, the bankers Milliet, Somary, Kurz, and others. The judges awarded a prize to a paper sub- mitted by Dr. Robert Deumer, director of the Reichsbank in Berlin. This paper was published in book form by the Mu- tualist Association of Finland.1 From the background material of the paper we can learn why the author is not concerned with the rationale of credit nationalization, but m