ould be blamed on circum- stances. A socialistic convention is not held "to write novels. Hard realities are colliding, which finds expression in this hard and awkward resolution." (This is a euphemis- tic way of admitting that something is wrong with the har- monious thoughts of the international solidarity of work- ers.) The writer therefore recommends that "this resolution so painfully constructed on the middle of the road be adopted unanimously." But the Australian representative Kröner crisply declared, "The majority of the Australian La- bor Party opposes the immigration of colored workers. As a socialist, I personally recognize the duty of international solidarity and hope that in time we shall succeed in winning 20. The most comprehensive treatment is given by Prato, Il proteezionismo operaio, Turin, 1910. (French translation by Bourgin, Paris, 1912.) The book remained al- most unknown in Germany. 124 all nations of the world for the idea of socialism." 21 Trans- lated from the Australian to English it means: Make as many resolutions as you please; we shall do as we please. Since the Labor Party has come to power, Australia, as is well known, has the strictest immigration laws against colored and white workers. The nationalistic Anti-Marxists of Germany could per- form a great service by solving the emigration problem. The German mind could develop a new doctrine of universal freedom and free movement that would evoke an echo with Italians, Scandinavians, Slavs, Chinese, and Japanese, and which in the long run no nation could resist. But no begin- ning has yet been made of what needs to be done, and surely nothing has been accomplished. National Anti-Marxism proved to be unproductive in the very point on which its greatest emphasis must be placed: the problem of foreign policy. Its program for the integra- tion of the German nation in the world economy and world policy does not basically differ from the precept of German policy in recent decades. In fact, it