which the critics of interventionism can be proud. 2. The Thesis of Schmalenbach Considering the dismal intellectual poverty and sterility of nearly all books and papers defending interventionism, we must take notice of an attempt by Schmalenbach to prove the inevitability of the "hampered economy." 63  Schmalenbach starts from the assumption that the capital intensity of industry is growing continuously. This leads to the inference that fixed costs become ever more significant while proportional costs lose in significance. The fact that an ever larger share of production costs is fixed causes the old era of a free economy to draw to a close, and a new era of a hampered econ- omy to begin. It is a characteristic of proportional costs that they occur with every item produced, with every ton delivered. . . . When prices fall below pro- duction costs, production is curtailed with corre- sponding savings in proportional costs. But if the lion's share of production costs consists of fixed costs, a production cutback does not reduce costs correspondingly. When prices then decline it is rather futile to offset their fall through production cutbacks. It is cheaper to continue production with average costs. Of course, the business now suffers a loss which, however, is smaller than it would be in the case of production cutbacks with nearly undi- minished costs. The modern economy with its high fixed costs thus has been deprived of the remedy that automatically coordinates production and consump- tion, and thereby restores the economic equilibrium. The economy lacks the ability to adjust production to consumption because to a large extent proportional costs have become rigid.6 This shifting of production costs within the enterprise "al- most alone" is "guiding us from the old economic order to the new one." "The old great era of the nineteenth century, the epoch of free enterprise, was possible only when pro- duction costs generally were proportional in nature. It ceased to be