ears so absurd that they rarely bother to give it thought. The defenders of interventionism often appeal to the no- tion that classical liberalism belongs to a past era. Today, they tell us, we are living in the age of "constructive eco- nomic policy," namely, interventionism. The wheel of his- tory cannot be turned back, and that which has vanished cannot be restored. He who calls for classical liberalism and thus proclaims the solution as "back to Adam Smith" is de- manding the impossible. It is not at all true that contemporary liberalism is identi- cal with the British liberalism of the eighteenth and nine- teenth centuries. Certainly modern liberalism is built on the great ideas developed by Hume, Adam Smith, Ricardo, Bentham, and Wilhelm Humboldt. But liberalism is no closed doctrine and rigid dogma. It is an application of the principles of science to man's social life, to politics. Eco- nomics and social science have made great strides since the 58 beginning of liberal doctrine, and thus liberalism also had to change, although the basic thought remained unaltered. He who makes the effort to study modern liberalism will soon discover the differences between the two. He will learn that knowledge of liberalism cannot be derived from Adam Smith alone, and that the demand for repeal of intervention- istic measures is not identical with the call, Return to Adam Smith. Modern liberalism differs from the liberalism of the eight- eenth and nineteenth centuries at least as much as modern interventionism differs from the mercantilism of the seven- teenth and eighteenth centuries. It is illogical to call the re- turn to free trade an anachronism if the return to the system of protection and prohibition is not also seen as an anachronism. Writers who credit the change in economic policy simply to the spirit of the age surely expect very little from a scien- tific explanation of interventionism. The capitalist spirit is said to have been replaced by the spirit of the hamp