uous, useless, and harmful. It is super- fluous because built-in forces are at work that limit the arbitrariness of the exchanging parties. It is useless because the government objective of lower prices cannot be achieved by controls. And it is harmful because it deters production and consumption from those uses that, from the consumer's viewpoint, are most important. At times liberalism has called government intervention impossible. Of course, gov- ernment can issue orders that regulate prices and punish the violators. Therefore, it would have been more appropriate for liberalism not to call price controls impossible, but rather unsuitable, that is, running counter to the intentions of their advocates. The following discussion will demonstrate this unsuitability. Liberalism was soon replaced by socialism, which seeks to replace private property in the means of production with public property. Socialism as such need not reject the price knowledge of science; it is conceivable that it could recog- nize its usefulness for an understanding of market phe- nomena in its own economic order. If it were to do that, it would have to conclude that government and other interfer- ence with prices is as superfluous, useless, and harmful as liberalism says it is. In fact, the doctrines of Marxism con- tain, besides quite incompatible principles and demands, the beginnings of this perception; this is clearly visible in the skepticism toward the belief that wage rates can be raised by labor-union tactics, and in the rejection of all methods Marx calls "bourgeois." But in the world of Marx- ian reality etatism is dominant. In theory etatism is the doc- trine of state omnipotence, and in practice, it is the govern- ment policy to manage all worldly matters through orders and prohibitions. The social ideal of etatism is a special kind of socialism, such as state socialism or, under certain condi- tions, military or religious socialism. On the surface the so- cial ideal of etatism does