e substance of the Marxian doctrine raise no ob- jection against the validity of the doctrine itself. Only he who can see the world without Marxian blinders may ap- proach the great problems of sociology. Only when German science has freed itself from the Marxian errors in which it is enmeshed today, then, and only then, will the power of Marxist slogans disappear from political life. 42. C. Menger, op. cit., p. xx et seq. 43. Ibid., p. xxi. THEORY OF PRICE CONTROLS' 1. Introduction The knowledge that the constellation of the market deter- mines prices precisely, or at least within narrow limits, is relatively new. Some earlier writers may have had a dim no- tion of it, but only the Physiocrats and the classical econo- mists elaborated a system of exchange and market relations. The science of catallactics thus replaced the indeterminism of theory, which explained prices from the demands of sell- ers, and saw no price limits other than their fairness. He who believes the formation of prices to be arbitrary eas- ily arrives at the demand that they should be fixed by exter- nal regulation. If the conscience of the seller is lacking, if without fear of the wrath of God he demands more than is "fair," a worldly authority must intervene in order to help justice prevail. And minimum prices must be imposed for certain commodities and services over which buyers are be- lieved, not quite logically, to have the power to force devia- 1. Handwörterbuch der Staatswissenschaften [Handbook of social sciences], 4th ed., vol. VI, 1923. 138 139  tions from the just price. Government is called upon to create order because disorder and arbitrariness prevail. The practical doctrine based on the knowledge of scien- tific economics and sociology-liberalism-rejects all inter- vention as superfluous, useless, and harmful. It is super- fluous because built-in forces are at work that limit the arbitrariness of the exchanging parties. It is useless because the government objective of lower pric