atives: either to abstain from all intervention, or, if this is not the intention, to add ever new interventions in order to eliminate "the discrep- ancy between supply and demand which the public policy has created," until all production and distribution are con- trolled by the social apparatus of coercion, that is, until the means of production are nationalized. In the case of minimum wage legislation it is a very unsat- isfactory solution for Professor Clark to recommend that the workers who lost their jobs be employed in public works. 22 And when he points at "energy, intelligence and loyalty" calling for government intervention, he merely reveals his embarrassment. 23 In his second to last sentence of this chapter dealing with fundamentals, Clark concludes that "government can do a great deal of good by merely seeing to it that everyone gets the benefit of the market rate, whatever that is, and thus prevent the ignorant from being exploited on account of their ignorance." 24 This concurs completely with the posi- tion of classical liberalism: government shall be limited to the protection of private property and the elimination of all obstacles to free market access for individuals or groups of 21. Ibid., p. 456. 22. Ibid. 23. Ibid., p. 457. 24. Ibid., p. 459. 19. Ibid. 20. Ibid. 50 51  individuals. This is nothing but another wording of the principle: laissez faire, laissez passer. It is insignificant that Professor Clark apparently believes that a special informa- tion program is necessary for the attainment of this objec- tive. Ignorance of the market situation alone cannot prevent potential buyers or workers from exploring the situation. If the sellers and entrepreneurs are not hampered in searching for customers and workers, their competition will reduce goods prices and raise wages until the market rate is at- tained. But whatever it be, classical liberal principles are not violated if government undertakes to publish relevant data on the formation of mark