pete with others for the few or perhaps only taxicab offering a ride. With ex- traordinary gains from exceptional opportunities, the cab- bies would be able, when business is poor, to charge lower rates in order to increase the demand for their services. Government intervention thus eliminates the difference be- tween the fare at times of great demand and those of weak demand, and establishes an average rate. Now, if govern- ment fixes rates that are even lower than this ideal average price, we have genuine price control, to which I shall return shortly. The case is similar where government does not set prices directly, but forces the seller, such as a restaurateur, to post his prices. This, too, has the effect that the seller is prevented from exploiting extraordinary situations in which he could obtain a higher price from individual buyers. He must take account of this limitation; if he is prevented from charging 142 143  more under favorable conditions, he will find it difficult to charge less under unfavorable conditions. Other price controls are to prevent windfall profits that might be reaped under extraordinary conditions. If a city power company for any reason should be prevented from generating power for a few days, candle prices would soar, and merchants with candle supplies would reap extraordi- nary profits. Now government intervenes and sets a price ceiling for candles, at the same time forcing the sale of candles as long as the supply lasts. This has no permanent effect on the candle supply inasmuch as the power failure is quickly corrected. Only insofar as merchants and producers, having such failures in mind, calculate prices and candle inventory does government intervention have future consequences. If the merchants must anticipate that under similar conditions government will again intervene, the price charged under normal conditions will rise and the incentive for larger in- ventories will be reduced. Genuine Controls. We may call those price cont