personal safety of its citizens, the alien rule is less palpable. It is felt more keenly the more society is governed, the more the state becomes a welfare state, the more etatism and socialism gain a footing. For the German nation a violent solution to the problem is least satisfactory. If Germany, a nation surrounded by other nations in the heart of Europe, were to assault in ac- cordance with this principle, it would invite a coalition of all its neighbors into a world-political constellation: ene- mies all around. In such a situation Germany could find only one ally: Russia, which is facing hostility by Poles, Lithuanians, Hungarians, and possibly Czechs, but no- where stands in direct conflict with German interests. Since Bolshevist Russia, like Czarist Russia, only knows force in dealing with other nations, it is already seeking the friend- ship of German nationalism. German Anti-Marxism and Russian Super-Marxism are not too far apart. But various at- tempts at reconciling German Anti-Marxian nationalism with the Anti-Marxian nationalism of Fascist Italy must fail in dealing with South Tirol, just as a reconciliation of Hun- garian chauvinism must fail in dealing with the West- Hungarian problem. A violent solution to the question of border Germans would be less acceptable for the German nation itself than for its neighbors, even if there were prospects for its realiza- tion. In fact, Germany, even if victorious on all sides, would need to be prepared for war at any time, would have to brace itself for another war of submission through starvation, and would have to prepare its economy for such an eventuality. This would impose a burden which, in the long run, could not be borne without serious consequences. The trade problem, which Germany needed to solve dur- 122 ing the nineteenth century, grew from a worldwide shifting of production to areas with more favorable production con- ditions. If there had been complete freedom of movement, a part of the German pop