e work of science, not of a political movement that is guided by resentment. German science must free itself of the bonds of Marxism by putting behind it the historicism which for decades has kept it intellectually impotent. It must shed its fear of theory in economics and sociology and get ac- quainted with the theoretical achievements (even those by Germany) attained during the last generation. Carl Menger's statements of more than forty years ago on 137 136  modern German economic literature are still valid today and apply to all the social sciences: "Scarcely noticed abroad, and barely understandable abroad on account of its peculiar tendencies, German economics for decades has remained untouched by serious opponents. With unflinching confi- dence in its own methods it often has lacked serious self- criticism. He who pursued another direction in Germany was ignored, not refuted." 42 Only a thorough study of the works of German and foreign sociology differing from etatism and historicism could help to extricate it from the deadlock of prevailing doctrine in Germany. German science would not be the only beneficiary. Great problems await their solu- tion that cannot be achieved without German cooperation. Again in the words of Menger: "All great civilized nations have their particular mission in the unfolding of science. Each aberration of a sizeable number of scholars of one na- tion leaves a gap in the development of scientific knowl- edge. Economics, too, cannot do without the singleminded cooperation of the German mind." 43 Above all, German science must make a proper assess- ment of the importance of Marxism. It is true, the Marxists and Anti-Marxists greatly overestimate Marxism as a scien- tific system. But also those who deny Marx as the first har- binger of the substance of the Marxian doctrine raise no ob- jection against the validity of the doctrine itself. Only he who can see the world without Marxian blinders may ap- proach the great problems of sociol