arch of particulars that is lost in details and overlooks the whole, but universal history, historical synthesis, and the philosophy of history. 102 To him, history was no goal in itself, but a means toward gaining more profound political insights. Economics was alien to him. He was appointed professor of economics without having dealt with this science before, which was a customary procedure at that time.54 It reflected the Empiri- cal-Realistic School's opinion on the nature of "social sciences" and on the scientific expertise of legal historians. Just before his untimely death Weber regretted that his knowledge of modern theoretical economics and the classi- cal system was too limited. He mentioned his fear that time would not permit him to fill these regrettable gaps. When he accepted the position, he was obliged to give lectures on those problems which the Socialists of the Chair considered the proper subject matter for university teach- ing. But Weber found no satisfaction in the prevailing doc- trine. The jurist and historian in him rebelled against the manner in which the School treated legal and historical problems. This is why he began his pioneering methodolog- ical and epistemological investigations. It led him to the problems of materialistic philosophy of history, from which he then approached the religious-sociological tasks. He pro- ceeded finally to a grandiose attempt at a system of social sciences. But all these studies, step by step, led Max Weber away from the political and social ideals of his youth. He moved, for the first time, toward liberalism, rationalism, utilitarian- ism. It was a painful personal experience, not different from that of many other scholars breaking away from Christian- ity. Indeed, his faith and religion were Prussian etatism; breaking away from it was like desertion from hope, his own people, indeed, from European civilization. As it became clear to him that the prevailing social ideol- ogy was untenable, and as he saw w