sociology. For but a few dozen individuals all over the globe are cognizant of economics, and no statesman or politician cares about it. The social ideology even of those political parties that call themselves "middle class," is totally socialis- tic, etatistic, syndicalistic. If, nevertheless, socialism and syndicalism are languishing, although the prevailing ideol- ogy is demanding further progress, it is solely due to the all-too-visible decline in labor productivity as a result of every restrictive measure. Swayed by the socialistic ideologies, everyone is searching for excuses for the failure, and not for the cause. Nevertheless, the net result has been greater caution in economic policy. Politics does not dare introduce what the prevailing ideol- ogy is demanding. Taught by bitter experience, it subcon- sciously has lost confidence in the prevailing ideology. In this situation, no one, however, is giving thought to replac- ing the obviously useless ideology with a useful one. No help is expected from reason. Some are taking refuge in mysticism, others are setting their hopes on the ne coming of the "strong man"-the tyrant who will think for them and care for them. In postwar Germany and Austria, a movement has been steadily gaining significance in politics and the social sciences that can best be described as Anti-Marxism. Occa- sionally its followers also use this label .* Their point of de- parture, their mode of thinking and fighting, and their goals are by no means uniform. The principal tie that unites them is their declaration of hostility toward Marxism. Mind you, they are not attacking socialism, but Marxism, which they re- proach for not being the right kind of socialism, for not be- ing the one that is true and desirable. It would also be a serious mistake to assert, as do the noisy Social-Democrat and Communist party literati, that this Anti-Marxism ap- proves of or in any way defends capitalism and private property in the means of production. No ma