ry investigation that in any way touches upon economic questions must "theorize." True, the empiricist does not know that he is theorizing, as Monsieur Jourdain never knew that he was al- ways speaking prose. And as empiricists are unaware of this, they carelessly adopt theories that are incomplete or even incorrect and avoid thinking them through logically. An explanatory theory can easily be constructed for each "fact," but only when the individual theories are united into a whole can we determine the value and futility of the "explanation." But the Historical School rejected it all; it did not want to admit that theories must be thought through and that they must be united into a consistent whole. In eclectic fashion it used pieces of all possible theories and fol- lowed indiscriminately and uncritically now this opinion, now that opinion. But the Socialists of the Chair not only did not build a sys- tem of their own, they also failed utterly in their critique of modern theoretical economics. The subjective-value theory did not receive the outside critique that is so indispensible for scientific progress. It owes its progress during the last decades to its own initiative, to critiques from its own ranks. This the followers of the Historical School did not even notice. Whenever they speak of modern economics their eyes are glued on 1890, when the achievements of Men- ger and Böhm-Bawerk were generally completed. The theoretical accomplishments in Europe and America since then remain rather foreign to them. The critique which the champions of academic socialism leveled at theoretical economics proved to be largely irrele- vant and, without apparent reason, not free of personal hatred. As in the writings of Marx and his disciples, a more or less tasteful joke often takes the place of critique. Bren- tano thought it proper to introduce a critique of Böhm-Ba- 34. See Brentano, Agrarpolitik [Agricultural policy], Stuttgart, 1897, pp. 60 et seq., 83 et seq. 90 werk's Ca