F. Sennholz, whom I asked to do the transla- tion, for his brilliant work. He has done a remarkable job of transposing the lengthy, complicated sentences-so typical of the German language of the 1920s-into fluent and ele- gant English. I am proud to see my husband's work pre- sented in this form to a new audience, and I hope it will be read widely. MARGIT VON MISES 7  INTRODUCTION We may grow in knowledge of truth, but its great princi- ples are forever the same. The economic principles that Lud- wig von Mises expounded in these six essays during the 1920s have endured the test of time, being as valid today as they were in the past. Surely, the names and places have changed, but the inescapable interdependence of market phenomena is the same today, during the 1970s, as it was during the 1920s, and as valid for present-day Americans as it was for the Germans of the Weimar Republic. And yet, most social scientists today are as ignorant of this interdependence of economic phenomena as they were during the 1920s. They are statists, or as Professor Mises preferred to call them, "etatists," who are calling upon gov- ernment to assume ever more responsibilities for the eco- nomic well-being of its citizens. No matter what modern economists have written about the general validity of eco- nomic laws, the statists prefer their ethical judgments over economic principles, and political power over voluntary cooperation. Without government control and regulation, central planning and authority, they are convinced, eco- nomic life would be brutal and chaotic. In this collection of essays Ludwig von Mises emphasizes again and again that society must choose between two sys- tems of social organization: either it can create a social order that is built on private property in the means of production, or it can establish a command system in which government owns or manages all production and distribution. There is no logical third system of a private property order subject to governmen