ige is not the achievement of Anti-Marxism, but that of the Austrian School, especially Böhm-Bawerk's critique which the young friends of theoret- ical economics in Germany could no longer overlook. Surely, the attempts by some writers to confer prestige on Marx as a philosopher have little prospect for success, be- cause, after all, philosophical knowledge in Germany has reached a level that makes scholars somewhat immune to the naivetés of the "philosophy" of Marx, Dietzgen, Vorländer, and Max Adler. However, in the field of sociol- ogy the categories and thoughts of Marxian materialism continue to spread. Here, Anti-Marxism could have solved an important task; but it was content with attacking those final conclusions of Marxism that appeared to be objection- able politically, without refuting its foundation and replac- ing it with a comprehensive doctrine. It had to fail, because for political reasons it sought to show that Marxism is ani- mated by the spirit of the West, that it is an offspring of in- dividualism-a concept alien to German character. The very starting point is fallacious. We already men- tioned that it is not permissible to contrast the universalistic (collectivistic) with the individualistic (nominalistic) sys- tems of social doctrine and policy, as set forth by Dietzel and Pribram, and now advocated by Spann with his nationalis- 22. See the excellent discussions by F. Wolfrum, "Der Weg zur deutschen Frei- heit" [The road to German freedom], Freie Welt, Gablonz, vol. IV, Booklet 95, and "Staatliche Kredithilfe" [Credit assistance by the state], Freie Welt, Booklet 99. In Czechoslovakia every government intervention serves to make the minorities Czech; in South Tirol and in Poland the Italians and Poles do not act any dif- ferently. 126 tic German Anti-Marxism. It is also erroneous to view Marx- ian socialism as the successor to the liberal democracy of the first half of the nineteenth century. The connection between the socialism of Marx and Las