an "enemy of the state." Both Herkner and Wiese21 expressly emphasize that liber- alism has nothing to do with capitalism. Passow tried to show that the ambiguous terms "capitalism," "capitalistic economic order," et cetera, are political slogans that, with but few exceptions, are not used objectively to classify and comprehend the facts of economic life. Instead, they are used to criticize, accuse, and condemn phenomena that are more or less misunderstood.22 If this position is taken, it is clear that he who appreciates liberalism, no matter how he defines it, seeks to protect it from labels that are felt to be derogatory, defamatory, and abusive. However, if we agree with Passow's observation that for most writers who have given the term "capitalism" a definite meaning, its essence is the development and expansion of larger enterprises,23 we must admit that liberalism and capitalism are closely re- lated. It was liberalism that created the ideological condi- tions that gave rise to modern large-scale industrial produc- tion. If we should use the term capitalism to identify an economic method that arranges economic activity according to capital calculation,24 we must come to the same conclu- sion. But no matter how we define capitalism, the develop- ment of capitalistic methods of production was and is possi- ble only within the framework of a social order built on private property in the means of production. Therefore, we cannot agree with Wiese's contention that the essence of liberalism was obscured by "its historical coincidence with large-scale capitalism." 25 That which makes capitalism appear "unliberal," accord- ing to Wiese, is "its insensitivity toward suffering, the bru- 21. See Herkner, vol. I, p. 38; Wiese, "Gibt es noch Liberalismus?" [Is there still liberalism?], vol. I, p. 22. 22. See Passow, Kapitalismus [Capitalism], Jena, 1918, p. 1 et seq. 23. Ibid., p. 132 et seq. 24. See my Gemeinwirtschaft, Jena, 1922, p. 110 et seq. [English-language edition