d enforced without consideration or mercy. In reality, the situation is quite different. If the price ceil- ings were really enforced, the delivery of milk and dairy products to the cities would soon come to a halt. Not more, but less milk, or none at all, would come to the market. The consumer still gets his milk only because the regulations are 30 circumvented. If we accept the rather impermissible and fal- lacious etatist antithesis of public and private interests, we would have to draw this conclusion: the milk dealer who violates the law is serving the public interest; the govern- ment official who seeks to enforce the ceiling price is jeopar- dizing it. Of course, the businessman who violates the laws and regulations in order to produce regardless of government obstacles is not guided by considerations of public interest, which the champions of the public interest belabor con- tinually, but by the desire to earn a profit, or at least to avoid the loss which he would suffer complying with the reg- ulation. Public opinion, which is indignant at the baseness of such motivation and the wickedness of such action, can- not comprehend that the impracticability of the decrees and prohibitions would soon lead to a catastrophe were it not for this systematic disregard of government orders and prohibi- tions. Public opinion expects salvation from strict com- pliance with government regulations passed "for the protec- tion of the weak." It censures government only because it is not strong enough to pass all necessary regulations and does not entrust their enforcement to more capable and in- corruptible individuals. The basic problems of intervention- ism are not discussed at all. He who timidly dares to doubt the justification of the restrictions on capitalists and entre- preneurs is scorned as a hireling of injurious special inter- ests or, at best, is treated with silent contempt. Even in a discussion of the methods of interventionism, he who does not want to jeopardize