ily rejects what has been created by theoretical economics-by the Physiocrats, classical writers, and mod- ern authors. In particular, they depict the work of modern economics, especially of the Austrians, as incredible aberra- tions of the human mind, whereupon they present their own supposedly original systems of theoretical economics, claiming to remove all doubts and solve all problems. The public, unfortunately, is led to believe that in economics everything is uncertain and problematic, and that economic theory merely consists of the personal opinions of various scholars. The excitement created by these authors in Ger- man-speaking countries succeeded in obscuring the fact that there is a science of theoretical economics which, de- spite differences in detail and especially in terminology, is enjoying a good reputation with all friends of science. And in spite of all the critique and reservations, even these writ- ers basically concurred with the theoretical system in its es- sential questions. But because this was not understood, they did not see the need for examining interventionism from the point of view of economic knowledge. In addition there was the effect of the argument on the permissibility of value judgments in science. In the hands of the Historical School, political science had become a doc- trine of art for statesmen and politicians. At the universities and in textbooks economic demands were presented and proclaimed as "scientific." "Science" condemned capitalism as immoral and unjust, rejected as "radical" the solutions offered by Marxian socialism, and recommended either state socialism or at times the system of private property with government intervention. Economics was no longer a 38 39  matter of knowledge and ability, but of good intentions. Especially since the beginning of the second decade of this century, this mix of university teaching and politics became objectionable. The public began to hold the official repre- sentatives of scienc