specially since the beginning of the second decade of this century, this mix of university teaching and politics became objectionable. The public began to hold the official repre- sentatives of science in contempt, because they made it their task to confer the blessings of "science" on the party pro- grams of their friends. And the public would no longer tol- erate the nuisance that each political party appealed to its favorite judgment of "science," that is, to a university pro- fessor marching in its footsteps. When Max Weber and some of his friends demanded that "science" should re- nounce value judgments and the universities should not be misused for political and economic propaganda, they met with almost universal agreement. Among those writers who agreed with Max Weber, or at least did not dare contradict him, were several whose whole record stood in open contradiction to the principle of objec- tivity, and whose literary efforts were nothing but para- phrases of certain political programs. They interpreted "ab- sence of value judgment" in a peculiar way. Ludwig Pohle and Adolf Weber had touched upon the basic problems of interventionism in their discussions of the wage policies of labor associations. The followers of the labor-union doc- trines of Brentano and Webb were unable to raise any perti- nent objections. But the new postulate of "value-free science" seemed to rescue them from the embarrassment in which they found themselves. Now they could haughtily re- ject anything that did not suit them, on grounds that it did not square with the dignity of science to interfere with the squabbling of political parties. In good faith, Max Weber had presented the principle of Wertfreiheit for a resumption of scientific inquiries into the problems of social life. In- stead, it was used by the Historical-Realistic-Social School as protection from the critique of theoretical economics. Again and again, perhaps intentionally, some writers re- fuse to recognize the diffe