ealth, and thus his power of control over means of production, to more capable hands. In a capitalistic economy the means of pro- duction are always on the way to the most capable manager, that is, to one who is able to use these means most economi- cally to the satisfaction of consumer needs. A public enter- 4. Ibid., p. 210. 158 159  prise, however, is managed by men who do not face the consequences of their success or failure. The same is said to be true of the leading executives of large private enterprises which therefore are run as "bu- reaucratically" as state and municipal operations. But such arguments ignore the basic difference between public and private enterprises. In a private, profit-seeking enterprise, every department and division is controlled by bookkeeping and accounting aiming at the same profit objective. Departments and divi- sions that are unprofitable are reorganized or closed. Work- ers and executives who fail in their assigned tasks are re- moved. Accounting in dollars and cents controls every part of the business. Monetary calculation alone shows the way to highest profitability. The owners, that is, the stockhold- ers of a corporation, issue only one order to the manager who transmits it to the employees: earn profits. The situation is quite different in the bureaus and courts that administer the affairs of the state. Their tasks cannot be measured and calculated in a way market prices are calcu- lated, and the order given to subordinates cannot be so eas- ily defined as that of an entrepreneur to his employees. If the administration is to be uniform and all executive power is not to be delegated to the lowest officials, their actions must be regulated in every detail for every conceivable case. Thus it becomes the duty of every official to follow these in- structions. Success and failure are of lesser importance than formal observance of the regulation. This is especially visi- ble in the hiring, treatment, and promotion of personnel, a