limits government to a narrow function. Obviously, this reasoning completely misses the point. We are not here discussing the question of whether or not social cooperation can do without the organization of coer- cion, which is the state, or government. The sole point under discussion is whether there are only two conceivable possi- bilities of social organization with division of labor, that is, the public property order and the private property order- disregarding syndicalism-or whether there is yet a third system as assumed by interventionists, namely, a private property order that is regulated through government inter- vention. Incidentally, we must carefully distinguish be- tween the question of whether or not government is nec- essary and the question of where and how government authority is in order. The fact that social life cannot do with- out the government apparatus of coercion cannot be used to conclude also that restraint of conscience, book censor- ship, and similar measures are desirable, or that certain economic measures are necessary, useful, or merely fea- sible Regulations for the preservation of competition do not at all belong to those measures preserving the private property order. It is a popular mistake to view competition between several producers of the same product as the substance of the ideal liberal economic order. In reality, the central no- tion of classical liberalism is private property, and not a cer- tain misunderstood concept of free competition. It does not matter that there are many recording studios, but it does matter that the means of record production are owned pri- vately rather than by government. This misunderstanding, together with an interpretation of freedom that is influenced by the natural rights philosophy, has led to attempts at preventing the development of large enterprises through laws against cartels and trusts. We need not here discuss the desirability of such a policy. But we should observe that nothing is l