ing: "National unity! Peace among classes!" And it is adding in thought: "War on the foreign enemy!" 17 16. Gelesnoff, Grundzüge der Volkswirtschaftslehre [Fundamental economics], Leip- zig, 1918, p. iii. 17. We must not search for ideas of national socialism just within the National So- cialist Party, which is merely a part-in questions of party tactics an especially radical part-of the greater movement of national socialism that comprises all people's parties. The most eminent literary spokesmen for national socialism are Oswald Spengler and Othmar Spann. A short and very instructive summary of the ideas of national socialism is contained in the program of the Greater German Peo- ple's Party of Austria written by Otto Conrad, Richtlinien deutscher Politik. Program- matische Grundlagen der Grossdeutschen Volkspartei [Guidelines for German policy. Program principles of the greater German people's party], Vienna, 1920. 120 These solutions distill the ideas which are dividing the German nation into two hostile camps. The great political problem of Germany is the national one. It appears in three different forms: as the problem of the linguistically mixed territories at the borders of German settlement in Europe, as the problem of German emigration (a creation of German settlements overseas), and as the prob- lem of foreign trade that must provide the material support for the German population. Marxism did not see these problems at all. It could say only that in the socialistic paradise of the future there will be no national struggle. "National hatred is transformed class hatred," its holder is "the middle class," its beneficiary the "bourgeoisie," proclaim the party literati. 18 How could there be national conflicts after class distinctions and exploi- tation have been abolished? The national problem is a world political problem, the greatest world problem in the foreseeable future. It concerns all nations, not just the German nation. During the eight- eenth and nine