stance, people resort to barter transactions, that is, to ex- change without the interaction of money. Government, which is ill-prepared for such transactions because it owns no exchangeable goods, cannot approve of such a develop- ment. It is coming to the market with money only, and therefore is hoping that the purchasing power of the mone- tary unit is not further reduced by the money holders' in- ability to get the goods they want with their money. As a buyer of commodities and services itself, government can- not adhere to the principle that the old prices must not be exceeded. In short, government as issuer of new money cannot escape the consequences described by the quantity theory. If government imposes a price higher than that deter- mined by the unhampered market, and prohibits the sale at lower prices (minimum prices), demand must decline. At the lower market price supply and demand coincide. At the 147  official higher price demand tends to trail supply, and some goods brought to the market cannot find a buyer. As gov- ernment imposed the minimum price in order to assure the sellers profitable sales, the result was unintended by gov- ernment. Therefore, it must resort to other means, which again, step by step, must lead to complete government con- trol over the means of production. Especially significant are those minimum prices that set wage rates (minimum wages). Such rates may be set either directly by government or indirectly by promoting labor union policies that aim at establishing minimum wages. When, through strikes or threats of strikes, labor unions en- force a wage rate that is higher than that determined by the unhampered market, they can do so only with the assistance of government. The strike is made effective by denying the protection of the law and administration to workers willing to work. In fact, it is irrelevant for our analysis whether the apparatus of coercion imposing the controls is the "legiti- mate" state apparatus or a sanction