nditions government will again intervene, the price charged under normal conditions will rise and the incentive for larger in- ventories will be reduced. Genuine Controls. We may call those price controls "genuine" that set prices differing from those the unham- pered market would set. If government seeks to fix a price higher than the market price, it usually resorts to minimum prices. If government seeks to fix a price lower than the mar- ket price it usually imposes price ceilings. Let us first consider the ceiling, or maximum, price. The nat- ural price that would emerge in an unhampered market corresponds to an equilibrium of all prices. At that point price and cost coincide. Now, if a government order neces- sitates a readjustment, if the sellers are forced to sell their goods at lower prices, the proceeds fall below costs. There- fore, the sellers will abstain from selling-except for mer- chandise that quickly spoils or otherwise loses in value- and hold on to their goods in the hope that the government regulation will soon be lifted. But the potential buyers will be unable to buy the desired goods. If possible, they now may buy some substitute they would not have otherwise bought. (It should also be noted that the prices of these sub- stitute goods must rise on account of the greater demand.) But it was never the intention of government to bring about these effects. It wanted the buyers to enjoy the goods at lower prices, not to deprive them of the opportunity to buy the goods at all. Therefore, government tends to supplement the price ceiling with an order to sell all goods at this price as long as the supply lasts. At this point price controls en- counter their greatest difficulty. The market interaction brings about a price at which demand and supply tend to coincide. The number of potential buyers willing to pay the market price is large enough for the whole market supply to be sold. If government lowers the price below that which the unhampered market w