e Middle Ages, and on the other hand, it constitutes the theoretic foundation for modern interventionism. 2. Price Controls Sanctioning Controls. We may call those controls "sanc- tioning" that set prices so close to those the unhampered market would set that only insignificant consequences can ensue. Such controls merely pursue a limited task and do not achieve great economic objectives through interference with market forces. Government may simply accept the market prices and sanction them with its intervention. The case is similar when government imposes price ceilings that lie above the market prices, and minimum prices that lie be- low them. The case is slightly different when government imposes controls in order to force a monopolist to charge competitive prices instead of higher monopolistic prices. If government creates monopolies or limits the number of competitors, thereby promoting monopolistic agreements, it must, without question, resort to price controls if it does not want to force consumers to pay monopolistic prices. In none of these cases is the result of government intervention a de- viation of price from that of the unhampered market. The situation is somewhat different when a government regulation deprives a seller of the opportunity, under cer- tain conditions, to demand and obtain a price that is higher than that he can normally obtain. If, for instance, govern- ment fixed rates for taxicabs, cabbies would be prevented from exploiting those cases in which passengers are willing to pay more than normal rates. The affluent tourist who, late at night and in bad weather, arrives at a strange railroad station, accompanied by small children and loaded with many pieces of luggage, will gladly pay a much higher fare to get to a remote hotel if he must compete with others for the few or perhaps only taxicab offering a ride. With ex- traordinary gains from exceptional opportunities, the cab- bies would be able, when business is poor, to charge lower rat