evelopment of theoretical knowledge in recent decades. Wherever they sought to deal with it critically, they could not get beyond the old errors already fully dealt with by Menger and Böhm- Bawerk. But all this has not weakened the socialistic and syndical- istic ideology. Today, it is swaying the minds of people more than ever before. The great political and economic events in recent years are seen almost exclusively from its viewpoint, though of course it has failed here also. What Cassau said about the ideology of proletarian socialism ap- plies also to that of Socialism of the Chair: All experiences of the last decade "passed by the ideology without influenc- ing it. Never did it have more opportunities for expansion, and scarcely ever has it been as sterile as during the debates on socialization."56 The ideology is sterile, and yet it is reigning. Even in Great Britain and the United States, classi- 56. Cassau, op. cit., vol. I, p. 152. 104 105  cal liberalism is losing ground every day. To be sure, there are characteristic differences between the teachings of Ger- man etatism and Marxism on the one hand, and the new doctrine of salvation in the United States on the other. The phraseology of the Americans is more carefully worded than that of Schmoller, Held, or Brentano. But the Americans' as- pirations basically concur with the doctrines of the Socialists of the Chair. They also share the mistaken belief that they are upholding the private property order. ANTI-MARXISM' When, by and large, socialism and syndicalism are in a stagnate state, when we notice some retreating steps on the road to socialism are taken, when thought is given to a limi- tation of labor union power, the credit can be given neither to the scientific perception of economics nor the prevailing sociology. For but a few dozen individuals all over the globe are cognizant of economics, and no statesman or politician cares about it. The social ideology even of those political parties that call t