solution, devised in 1923 by university professors meeting at Stuttgart, revealed this change. Brentano himself sought to describe their differences in the fundamental questions of social policy as follows: We both favored the activity of free organizations as well as government intervention wherever the in- dividual left to his own was too weak to preserve his personality and to develop his ability. But from the beginning our positions on both were reversed. My studies of British conditions had led me to build my hopes for lifting the working classes primarily on the activities of their organizations, while it mattered much more to Schmoller that the state assume the role of protector of the weak. 11 10. Knapp, Die Landarbeiter in Knechtschaft und Freiheit [Agricultural workers in serfdom and freedom], 2nd ed., Leipzig, 1909, p. 86; now also in Einführung in einige Hauptfragen der Nationalökonomie [Introduction to a few principal ques- tions of economics], Munich and Leipzig, 1925, p. 1922. 11. Brentano, Ist das System Brentano zusaummengebrochen? [Has the Brentano sys- tem collapsed?], Berlin, 1918, p. 14 et seq. Brentano wrote this in the spring of 1918, shortly after the collapse of the Schmoller system, and shortly before the col- lapse of the Brentano system became evident. While the fundamental differences between the two schools are not clearly delineated, they are at least discernible. 3. Liberalism and Social Liberalism Names are unimportant; what matters is substance. The term "social liberalism" sounds strange indeed as socialism and liberalism are mutually exclusive. But we are accus- tomed to such terminology. Also, socialism and democracy are irreconcilable in the final analysis, and yet there is the old concept of "Social Democracy," which is a contradictio in adjecto. If today the Brentano School, which adopted syndical- ism, and some "moderate" etatists designate their move- ment as "social liberalism," no terminological objection need be raised. B