tic prices, we must not be influenced by popular terminology that detects "monopolies" everywhere, but work rather with the strictly economic concepts of monopoly. 25  If government is not inclined to alleviate the situation through removing its limited intervention and lifting its price control, its first step must be followed by others. Its decree that set price ceilings must be followed not only by decrees on the sale of all available supplies and the introduc- tion of rationing, but also price controls on the goods of higher order and wage controls and, finally, mandatory la- bor for businessmen and workers. And such decrees must not be limited to a single or a few industries, but must cover all branches of production. There is no other choice: govern- ment either abstains from limited interference with the mar- ket forces, or it assumes total control over production and distribution. Either capitalism or socialism; there is no mid- dle of the road. Let us take yet another example: the minimum wage, wage control. It is unimportant whether government im- poses the control directly, or labor unions through physical coercion or threats prevent employers from hiring workers who are willing to work for lower wages.6 As wages rise, so must the costs of production and also prices. If the wage earners were the only consumers as buyers of the final prod- ucts, an increase in real wages by this method would be in- conceivable. The workers would lose as consumers what they gained as wage earners. But there are also consumers whose income is derived from property and entrepreneurial activity. The wage boost does not raise their incomes; they cannot pay the higher prices and, therefore, must curtail their consumption. The decline in demand leads to dis- missal of workers. If the labor union coercion were ineffec- tive, the unemployed would exert a labor market pressure that would reduce the artificially raised wages to the nat- ural market rate. But this escape has been clos