the classes, races and nations. The reason for this negligence is not difficult to detect. It is impossible to demonstrate a principle of asso- ciation that exists within a collective group only, and that is inoperative beyond it. If war and strife are the driving force of all social development, why should this be true for classes, races, and nations only, and not for war among all individuals? If we take this warfare sociology to its logical conclusion we arrive at no social doctrine at all, but at "a theory of unsociability." 13 None of this could be understood in Germany, Hungary, and the Slavic countries because of a basic hostility toward all utilitarian thought right from the start. Because modern sociology is based on utilitarianism and the doctrine of the division of labor, it was rejected summarily. This is the main reason for the reluctance of German scholars to cope with sociology, and for the struggle they waged so tena- ciously for decades against sociology as a science. Since so- 13. Barth, Die Philosophie der Geschichte als Soziologie [The philosophy of history as sociology], 3rd ed., Leipzig, 1922, p. 260. 116 ciology was not welcome, a substitute had to be found. De- pending on their political position they adopted one of the two "theories of unsociability" which emphasized the war- fare principle, and completely bypassed any search for a principle of association. This scientific situation explains the success Marxian so- ciology was able to achieve in Germany and in the East. When compared with the doctrines of racial and national warfare it had the advantage of offering, at least for the dis- tant future, a social order with a coherent principle of as- sociation. Its answer was ever so much more acceptable because it was optimistic and more satisfactory for some readers than those doctrines which offered nothing in his- tory but a hopeless struggle of a noble race against a suprem- acy of inferior races. He who sought to go even further in his op