xpansion of the system, or even its replacement by a new one. But he who would conclude from the result of one experiment that there can be no theoretical perception would invite ridicule. The social sciences lack the experiment. They can never observe the consequences of one factor, other condi nditions being un- changed. And yet, the deniers of system and theory dare to conclude from some "fact" that a theory, or even all theory, has been refuted. What is there to be said about general statements such as these: "Britain's industrial supremacy during the eight- eenth and nineteenth centuries was the result of mercantile policies in previous centuries," or "The rise in real wages during the last decades of the nineteenth century and the early decades of the twentieth century must be credited to labor unions," or "Land speculation raises rents." Such statements are believed to be drawn directly from experi- ence. This is not gray theory, they tell us, but fruit from the green tree of life. But they adamantly refuse to listen to a theorist who proposes to examine the various tenets of "practical experience" by thinking them through, and want- ing to unite them into a systematic structure. All the arguments the Empirical-Realistic School could ad- vance do not replace the lack of a comprehensive theoretical system. 8. Recent Writings on the Problems of Interventionism In Germany, the classical country of interventionism, the need to deal seriously with an economic critique of inter- ventionism was scarcely felt. Interventionism came to power without a fight. It could ignore the science of eco- nomics created by Englishmen and Frenchmen. Friedrich List denounced it as being injurious to the interests of the German people. Among the few German economists, Thünen was scarcely known, Gossen completely unknown, and Hermann and Mangold without much influence. Men- ger was "eliminated" in the Methodenstreit. Formal science in Germany did not concern itself with economic achie