er, it means production that disregards the consumers' wishes, but pleases the dictator or committee of dictators. Surely, in a capitalistic order a fraction of national income 156 157  is spent by the rich on luxuries. But regardless of the fact that this fraction is very small and does not substantially af- fect production, the luxury of the well-to-do has dynamic ef- fects that seem to make it one of the most important forces of economic progress. Every innovation makes its appear- ance as a "luxury" of the few well-to-do. After industry has become aware of it, the luxury then becomes a "necessity" for all. Take, for example, our clothing, the lighting and bathroom facilities, the automobile, and travel facilities. Economic history demonstrates how the luxury of yesterday has become today's necessity. A great deal of what people in the less capitalistic countries consider luxury is a common good in the more capitalistically developed countries. In Vienna, ownership of a car is a luxury (not just in the eyes of the tax collector); in the United States, one out of four or five individuals owns one. The critic of the capitalist order who seeks to improve the conditions of the masses should not point at this luxury con- sumption as long as he has not disproved the assertion of theorists and the experience of reality that only capitalis- tic production assures highest possible production. If a command system produces less than a private property order it will obviously not be possible to supply the masses with more than they have today. 2. Bureaucratic Management or Profit Management of Banking? The poor performance of public enterprises is usually blamed on bureaucratic management. In order to render state, municipal, and other public operations as successful as private enterprise they should be organized and directed along commercial lines. This is why for decades everything has been tried to make such operations more productive through "commercialization." The prob