ressure of supply would soon bring about a wage adjustment that would assure employment to all hands. We may regret the consequences of the antimarket and anticapitalistic policy in recent decades, but we cannot change them. Only reduction in consumption and hard la- bor can replace the capital that was lost, and only the forma- 34 tion of new capital can raise the marginal productivity of la- bor and thus wage rates. Unemployment compensation cannot eradicate the evil. It merely delays the ultimately unavoidable adjustment of wages to the fallen marginal productivity. And since the compensation is usually not paid from income, but out of capital, ever more capital is consumed and future marginal productivity of labor further reduced. However, we must not assume that an immediate aboli- tion of all the obstacles to the smooth functioning of the cap- italist economic order would instantly eradicate the conse- quences of many decades of intervention. Vast amounts of producers' goods have been destroyed. Trade restrictions and other mercantilistic measures have caused malinvest- ments of even greater amounts that yield little or nothing. The withdrawal of large fertile areas of the world (e.g., Rus- sia and Siberia) from the international exchange system has led to unproductive readjustments in primary production and processing. Even under the most favorable conditions, many years will pass before the traces of the fallacious poli- cies of the last decades can be erased. But there is no other way to the greater well-being for all. 6. The Doctrine of Interventionism To prescientific thinkers, a human society built on private property in the means of production seemed to be naturally chaotic. It received its order, so they thought, only from im- posed precepts of morality and law. Society can exist only 35  if buyer and seller observe justice and fairness. Government must intervene in order to avoid the evil that flows from an arbitrary deviation from the "just price." T