Max Weber.55 9. The Failure of the Prevailing Ideology In all variations and colors the ideas of socialism and syn- dicalism have lost their scientific moorings. Their cham- 55. See Wilbrandt, "Kritisches zu Max Webers Soziologie der Wirtschaft" [On the critique of Weber's economic sociology], Cologne Quarterly for Sociology, 5th year, p. 171 et seq .; Spann, "Bemerkungen zu Max Webers Sociologie" [Remarks on Max Weber's sociology], Zeitschrift für Volkswirtschaft und Sozialpolitik [Journal for economics and social policy], new series, vol. III, p. 761 et seq. pions have been unable to set forth another system more compatible with their teachings and thereby refute the charge of emptiness by the theoretical economists. There- fore, they had to deny fundamentally the posibility of theoretical knowledge in the field of social science and, especially, in economics. In their denial they were content with a few critical objections to the foundation of theoretical economics. But their methodological critique as well as their objections to various theories have proven to be utterly un- tenable. Nothing, absolutely nothing has remained of what half a century ago Schmoller, Brentano, and their friends used to proclaim as the new science. The fact that studies in economic history can be very instructive, and that they should be undertaken, had been known before, and had never been denied. Even during the zenith of the Historical School theoretical economics did not remain idle. The birthday of modern subjectivist theory coincided with the foundation of the As- sociation for Social Policy. Since then, economics and social policy have confronted each other. The social scientists do not even know the foundation of the theoretical system, and have taken no notice of the significant development of theoretical knowledge in recent decades. Wherever they sought to deal with it critically, they could not get beyond the old errors already fully dealt with by Menger and Böhm- Bawerk. Bu