ralism?], vol. I, p. 22. 22. See Passow, Kapitalismus [Capitalism], Jena, 1918, p. 1 et seq. 23. Ibid., p. 132 et seq. 24. See my Gemeinwirtschaft, Jena, 1922, p. 110 et seq. [English-language edition: Socialism (London: Jonathan Cape, 1936), p. 111 et seq. ] 25. Wiese, op. cit., vol. I, p. 23. 83  tal use of elbows, and the struggle to overpower and enslave fellow men." 26 These expressions come from the old register of socialistic complaints about the corruption and wicked- ness of capitalism. They reveal the socialistic misinterpreta- tion of the nature and substance of a social order that is based on private property. If, in a capitalistic society, the buyer seeks to buy an economic good wherever it is least ex- pensive, without regard for other considerations, he does not act with "insensitivity toward suffering." If the superior enterprise successfully competes with one working less economically, there is no "brutal use of elbows," or "strug- gle to overpower and enslave fellow men." The process in this case is no undesirable concomitant effect, or "out- growth" of capitalism, and unwanted by liberalism. On the contrary! The sharper the competition, the better it serves its social function to improve economic production. That the stagecoach driver was replaced by the railroad, the hand weaver by mechanical weaving, the shoemaker by the shoe factory, did not happen contrary to the intentions of liberal- ism. And when small shipowners with sailing vessels were replaced by a large steamship company, when a few dozen butchers were replaced by a slaughterhouse, a few hundred merchants by a department store, it signifies no "over- powering and enslaving of fellow men." Wiese remarks correctly that "in reality, liberalism has never existed on a large scale, and that the community of liberals still needs to be created and brought along." 27 Thus, the picture of what fully developed capitalism can achieve is incomplete at best, even if we reflect upon British society a