g. Its content must then be analyzed and transformed to a picture full of life, and the lesson must be drawn from this researched passage of life. It is not enough to be diligent in the preparation of excerpts from docu- ments. It takes the power of intuition, combination, sagacity, and the most important scientific gift: the ability to recognize the common element in the multiplicity of phenomena. When this is lacking we gain nothing but uninteresting details. . . . This kind of economic historical analysis is utterly worthless for economics. 39 And bearing in mind the etatist bias in the works of the Schmoller School, Brentano calls it an aberration "to confuse enthusiastic excerpts from archives with economic investi- gations and research." 40 37. Ibid., p. 7 et seq. 38. See Herkner, Die Geschichte der Nationalökonomie, Festschrift für Lujo Brentano zum siebzigsten Geburtstag [History of economics, Festschrift for Lujo Brentano in honor of his seventieth birthday], Munich and Leipzig, 1916, p. 223-35. 39. Emphasis added. Brentano, "Über den grundherrlichen Charakter des hausin- dustriellen Leinengewerbes in Schlesien" [On the manorial character of the linen home industry in Silesia], Journal for Social and Economic History, vol. I, 1893, p. 319 et seq. 40. Ibid., p. 322. 92 6. The Economic Doctrines of Social Liberalism Faithful to their principle, the Socialists of the Chair did not create a system of economics, which was the endeavor of the Physiocrats and classical economists, and now the modern subjectivist economists. The socialists were not concerned with creating a system of catallactics. Marx simply adopted the system of the classics and drew the conclusion that, in a society based on the division of la- bor, there is no third organizational possibility besides the private property and the public property orders. He mocked all attempts at a third order as "bourgeois." The position of etatism is different. From the start it did not seek to under- stand, bu