the social movement: labor unions, socialistic par- ties, strikes, etc." 32 It cannot be denied that the materialistic philosophy of history is visible here in full display. To be sure, Sombart does not draw the conclusion which Marx logically drew in this case: that socialism is coming with the inevitability of natural law.33 According to Sombart, the "science of capitalism" founded by Marx introduced "the idea of the regularity of economic life in our era." It reveals "that the realization of any particular socialistic demand de- pends on very real, objective conditions and that, therefore, socialism may not always be realizable." Marx thus created "scientifically" the thought of resignation which logically leads from socialism to social reform.34 We need not dwell further on the question of whether Sombart's conclusion is the one that must logically be drawn from the doctrines of Marx, or whether the opinion of Lenin and Trotsky is the logical one. It is decisive that Sombart unconsciously con- tinues to stand on the scientific ground of Marxism. (Som- bart drew the reform conclusion in his earlier writings; this is the "Sombartism" of which the orthodox Marxists speak with derogatory gestures, as they always do when some- thing displeases them.) Wherever Sombart seeks to describe capitalism he does so in the framework of Marx and Engels, often in their own words. 35 31. Ibid., vol. I, p. 75. 32. Ibid., vol. II, p. 261. 33. Ibid., vol. I, p. 305. 34. Ibid., vol. I, p. 304. 35. Ibid., vol. I, p. 32 et seq. 30. Ibid., vol. I, p. 19 et seq. 133 132  Such are the characteristics of Sombart's position on Marxism: while he does not embrace the founder's naively materialistic version of socialism today, Sombart builds his more refined socialistic doctrines on the foundation of Marxism. And he draws practical conclusions other than those of orthodox Marxists. In fact, he does not oppose so- cialism in any form. Sombart reproaches Marx not for his doctrine of class war- f