enterprise they should be organized and directed along commercial lines. This is why for decades everything has been tried to make such operations more productive through "commercialization." The problem became all the more important as state and municipal operations ex- panded. But not by a single step has anyone come closer to the solution. Deumer, too, deems it necessary "to manage the national banking monopoly along commercial lines," and makes several recommendations on how to achieve this.4 They do not differ from many other proposals in recent years or from those which under the circumstances could and have been achieved. We hear of schools and examinations, of promo- tion of the "able," of sufficient pay for employees, and of profit-sharing for leading officials. But Deumer does not see the essence of the problem any more clearly than do any oth- ers who seek to make the inevitably unproductive system of public operations more productive. Deumer, in step with prevailing opinion, seems to be- lieve erroneously that the "commercial" is a form of organi- zation that can easily be grafted onto government enter- prises in order to debureaucratize them. That which usually is called "commercial" is the essence of private enterprise aiming at nothing but the greatest possible profitability. And that which usually is called "bureaucratic" is the essence of government operations aiming at "national" ob- jectives. A government enterprise can never be "commer- cialized" no matter how many external features of private enterprise are superimposed on it. The entrepreneur operates on his own responsibility. If he does not produce at lowest costs of capital and labor what consumers believe they need most urgently, he suffers losses. But losses finally lead to a transfer of his wealth, and thus his power of control over means of production, to more capable hands. In a capitalistic economy the means of pro- duction are always on the way to the most capable manager, that is, to