ery little; even at full plant operation they are working with de- gressive costs. To utilize these facilities better the plant is enlarged. "Thus whole industries are expanding their capac- ities without justification by a rise in demand." 10 We read- ily admit that this is the case in contemporary Europe with its interventionistic policies, and especially in highly inter- ventionistic Germany. Production is expanded without con- sideration of the market, but rather in view of the redistri- bution of cartel quotas and similar considerations. Again, this is a consequence of interventionism, not a factor giv- ing rise to it. Even Schmalenbach, whose thinking is oriented eco- nomically in contrast to that of other observers, could not es- cape the error that generally characterizes German economic literature. It is erroneous to view developments in Europe, and particularly in Germany under the influence of highly protective tariffs, as the result of free market forces. It cannot be emphasized too often and too emphatically that the Ger- man iron, coal, and potash industries are operating under the impact of tariff protection, and, in the case of coal and potash, also under other government intervention, and these are forcing the formation of syndicates. Therefore, to draw conclusions for the free economy from what is happening in those industries is completely incorrect. The "permanent inefficiency" so sharply criticized by Schmal- enbach,11 is no inefficiency of the free economy, but in- efficiency of the hampered economy. The "new eco- nomic order" is the product of interventionism. Schmalenbach is convinced that in the not-too-distant fu- ture we must reach a state of affairs in which the monopolis- tic organizations will receive their monopolistic power from the state, and the state will superintend "the performance of the duties incumbent on the monopoly."12 Surely, if for any reason we reject the return to a free economy, this con- 10. Schmalenbach, op. cit., p.