follow these in- structions. Success and failure are of lesser importance than formal observance of the regulation. This is especially visi- ble in the hiring, treatment, and promotion of personnel, and is called "bureaucratism." It is no evil that springs from some failure or shortcoming of the organization or the in- competency of officials. It is the nature of every enterprise that is not organized for profit. When state and municipality go beyond the sphere of court and police, bureaucratism becomes a basic problem of social organization. Even a profit-seeking public enterprise could not be unbureaucratic. Attempts have been made to eliminate bureaucratism through profit-sharing by manag- ers. But since they could not be expected to bear the even- tual losses, they are tempted to become reckless, which then is to be avoided by limiting the manager's authority through directives from higher officials, boards, commit- tees, and "expert" opinions. Thus again, more regulation and bureaucratization are created. But usually public enterprises are expected to strive for more than profitability. This is why they are owned and operated by government. Deumer, too, demands of the na- tionalized banking system that it be guided by national rather than private considerations, that it should invest its funds not where the return is highest, but where they serve the national interest.5 We need not analyze other consequences of such credit policies, such as the preservation of uneconomical enter- prises. But let us look at their effects on the management of public enterprises. When the national credit service or one of its branches submits an unfavorable income statement it may plead: "To be sure, from the viewpoint of private interest and profitability we were not very successful. But it must be borne in mind that the loss shown by commercial account- ing is offset by public services that are not visible in the ac- counts. For instance, dollars and cents cannot express our ach