e workers in essential enterprises are in the position to extract any arbitrary wage from the rest of the population. But ignoring even that, the shifting of the wage boost to consumer prices can be borne by the workers themselves, but not by capitalists and entrepreneurs whose incomes did not rise on account of the wage boost. They now must cur- tail capital accumulation, or consume less, or even eat into their capital. What they will do, and to what extent they will do it, depends on the size of their income reduction. Surely everyone will agree that it is inconceivable thus to eliminate or merely greatly to curtail property income without at least reducing or halting capital formation and very likely con- suming capital (after all, there is nothing in the way of unions that could keep them from raising their demands to levels that absorb all "unearned" income). But it is obvious that the consumption of capital does not permanently raise the workers' wages. The etatist and social-liberal roads to higher wages of workers diverge. But neither leads to the goal. As social liber- alism cannot possibly wish to halt or reduce capital forma- tion, much less cause capital consumption, it finally faces the alternative: either capitalism or socialism. Tertium non datur ("There is no third road"). 96 97  7. The Concept and Crisis of Social Policy All the economic policies of the last two generations are designed step by step to abolish private property in the means of production- if not in name, then in substance- and to replace the capitalist social order with a socialistic order. Decades ago Sidney Webb announced it in his Fabian Essays.49 As the pictures of the desired future social order varied with the individual branches of socialism, so did their opinions on the road by which the goal was to be reached. There are questions on which all branches could agree. In other questions great differences separated the camps, as, for instance, factory labor by married women, or p