unions could raise wages. Only Brentano and Webb sought to prove that collective bargaining can permanently raise the income of all workers; this theory is the principal doctrine of social liberalism. However, it could not withstand a scientific critique, such as that by Pohle 44 and Adolf Weber.45 In his last essay, Böhm-Bawerk, too, arrived at the same conclusion,46 and no one today dares seriously repre- sent the Brentano-Webb doctrine. It is significant that the 43. Only subjects have selfish "special interests" and do not know what is good for them. Government officials and "the sovereign" are always unselfish and wise. 44. See Pohle, Die gegenwärtige Krisis in der deutschen Volkswirtschaftslehre [The con- temporary crisis in German economics], 2nd ed., Leipzig, 1921, p. 29 et sea. 45. See Adolf Weber, Der Kampf zwischen Kapital und Arbeit [The struggle between capital and labor], 2nd ed., Tubingen, 1920, p. 411 et seq. 46. Böhm-Bawerk, "Macht oder ökonomisches Gesetz" [Control or economic law], Collected Works, edited by Weiss, Vienna, 1924, p. 230 et seq. [English-lan- guage edition: Shorter Classics of Böhm-Bawerk (South Holland, Ill .: Libertarian Press, 1962), vol. I, p. 139 et seq. ] 95  comprehensive Festschrift honoring Brentano does not con- tain a single contribution on wage theory and the wage poli- cies of labor unions. Cassau merely observes that before the war the labor union movement worked "without any wage theory." 47 In his review of the first edition of Adolf Weber's book, Schmoller responded to the point that it is regularly impos- sible, without a rise in productivity, to raise wage rates through the withholding of labor. According to Schmoller, "such theoretical abstract price discussions" could lead to no useful results. We can render a "safe judgment" only "if we can numerically measure these fine complicated pro- cesses." Adolf Weber sees in such an answer a declaration of bankruptcy of our science. 48 But the etatist need not be concer