a com- promise between socialism, liberalism, and syndicalism with regard to the same means of production. This funda- mental and logical implacability of the three conceivable so- cial orders has again and again been obscured in theory and politics. But no one has ever succeeded in creating a social order that could be called a synthesis, or even reconciliation, of the conflicting principles. Liberalism is the ideology that views private property in the means of production as the only possible, or at least best conceivable foundation of human society based on division of labor. Socialism seeks to transfer the property in the means of production to the hands of organized society, the state. Syndicalism wants to transfer control over the means of production to the association of workers in the individual branches of production.7 State socialism (etatism, also conservative socialism) and its related systems of military socialism and Christian so- cialism aim at bringing about a society in which "the man- agement of property is left to individuals," but its employ- 7. Syndicalism as a social ideal must not be confused with syndicalism as tactics. The specific syndicalistic tactics (the action directe of the French syndicalists) may also serve other ideologies. For instance, they may be used toward the realization of socialism. ment is supervised and guided by the collective whole so that "formally property is private, but in substance it is public."8 The farmer, for instance, becomes a "civil servant and must grow what the country needs according to his best knowledge and conscience or by government order. If he re- ceives his interest and a living salary, he has everything he can demand."9 Some large enterprises are transferred di- rectly to the state or community, all others formally remain in the hands of their owners, but must be managed in accor- dance with the plan of the authorities. Thus, every business becomes a public office, and every occupation an "appoint-