ot make man richer, but it can make him poorer. With most production restrictions this is so clear that their sponsors rarely dare openly claim credit for the restrictions. Many generations of writers, therefore, sought in vain to demonstrate that production restrictions do not reduce the quantity and quality of output. There is no need to deal again with the protective tariff arguments that are raised from a purely economic point of view. The only case that can be made on behalf of protective tariffs is this: the sacrifices they impose could be offset by other, noneconomic advan- tages-for instance, from a national and military point of view it could be desirable to more or less isolate a country from the world.4 Indeed, it is difficult to ignore the fact that production re- strictions always reduce the productivity of human labor and thus the social dividend. Therefore, no one dares de- fend the restrictions as a separate system of economic pol- icy. Their advocates-at least the majority of them-are now promoting them as mere supplements to government in- terference with the structure of prices. The emphasis of the system of interventionism is on price intervention. 4. For a critique of these notions see my Nation, Staat und Wirtschaft [Nation, state and economy], Vienna, 1919, p. 56 et seq., especially with regard to German poli- cies since the 1870s. 23  4. Interference with Prices Price intervention aims at setting goods prices that differ from those the unhampered market would set. When the unhampered market determines prices, or would determine prices if government had not interfered, the proceeds cover the cost of production. If government sets a lower price, proceeds fall below cost. Merchants and producers will now desist from selling-excepting perish- able goods that quickly lose value-in order to save the goods for more favorable times when, hopefully, the control will be lifted. If government now endeavors to prevent a good's disappearance from the mark