nterest theory, according to Engels, is "merely a paraphrase of that of Marx."5 Böhm-Bawerk, who agreed with this Engels judgment, observed (in 1900) that Dietzel's and Stolzmann's interest theories are also closely related to Lexis' opinion, and that we often encounter similar thoughts and pronouncements in contemporary economic literature as well. It seems to be "a trend of thought that is coming into fashion." 6 In economics, this fashion did not last too long. For the generation of men who had been the pupils of the founders of the younger Historical School, Marx was the economic theorist par excellence. But when some pupils of these pu- pils began to turn their attention to the problems of theoreti- cal economics, Marx's reputation as a theorist quickly van- ished. Finally, the achievements of theoretical economics abroad and in Austria during the last two decades were rec- ognized in Germany; and it was seen how small and insig- nificant a position Marx occupies in the history of eco- nomics. However, the influence of Marxism on German sociology 3. Ibid., p. 443. 4. Ibid., p. 445. 5. F. Engels, Vorrede zum III, Band des "Kapitals" [Preface to vol. 3 of Das Kapital], 3rd ed., Hamburg, 1911, p. xii et seq. 6. Böhm-Bawerk, Einige strittige Fragen der Kapitalstheorie [Some disputed ques- tions of capital and interest], Vienna, 1900, p. 111 et seq .; also on Brentano, cf. O. Spann, Der wahre Staat [The true state], Leipzig, 1923, p. 141 et seq. 110 has continued to grow. In sociology, more so than in eco- nomics, the Germans ignored the achievements of the West. As they began rather late to deal with sociological problems they knew only one ideology: the Marxian philosophy of history and the doctrine of class warfare. It became the start- ing point for German sociological thought and, through the problems it posed, greatly influenced even those writers who strove to reject it most vigorously. The majority did not repudiate the doctrine itself, but merely its politi