n all economic and sociological theory, they were utterly defenseless against the doctrines of Marx. They rejected the harshest political demands of Marx and Engels, but adopted the theories in milder form. This Marxism of the pupils soon reacted on the teachers. In his article "Economy, Economics and Economic Method,"2 Schmoller mentions that Jevons "correctly" said of Ricardo that "he put the wagon of political economy on the wrong track." With visible satisfaction Schmoller then adds that Hasbach observed that "it was the very track which the English bourgeoisie wanted to take." For a long time during the fight of the German Historical School against the narrow-mindedness of Ricardo, Schmoller contin- * Translator's note: In this essay, the author still used the term sociology for what he later called praxeology, the general theory of human action. 2. Schmoller, "Volkswirtschaft, Volkswirtschaftslehre und -methode" [Economy, economics and economic method], Handwörterbuch der Staatswissenschaften [Hand- book of social sciences], 3rd ed., vol. VIII, p. 426 108 109  ues "many followers of the old school" believed they were walking in the methodological footsteps of Adam Smith. Thus many were not aware "that their theories had become narrow class doctrines." 3 Socialism, according to Schmoller, can be denied "neither justification for existence nor some good effects." "Born as a philosophy of social misery, it rep- resents a branch of science that suits the interests of work- ers, in the same way as the post-Adam Smith natural phi- losophy had become a theory serving the interests of capitalists." 4 We can clearly see how strongly Marxian notions have permeated Schmoller's ideas of the historical development of economic systems. They are even stronger with Lexis. whose interest theory, according to Engels, is "merely a paraphrase of that of Marx."5 Böhm-Bawerk, who agreed with this Engels judgment, observed (in 1900) that Dietzel's and Stolzmann's interest theories a