t is true that if government interferes with this adjust- ment process through the imposition of protective tariffs of appropriate size a new possibility arises for producers: they can form a cartel in order to reap monopolistic gains through reductions in output. Obviously, the formation of cartels does not result from some development in the free economy, but is rather the consequence of the government interven- tion, i.e., the tariff. In the case of coal and brick, the trans- portation costs, which are so high relative to product value, may, under certain conditions and without government in- tervention, lead to the formation of cartels with limited local effectiveness. A few metals are found in so few places that even in a free economy the producers may attempt to form a world cartel. But it cannot be said too often that all other cartels owe their existence not to a tendency in a free econ- omy, but to intervention. International cartels generally can be formed only because important production and con- sumption areas are sheltered from the world market by tariff barriers. The formation of cartels has nothing to do with the ratio of fixed to proportional costs. The fact that the cartel forma- tion in the finishing industries is proceeding more slowly than in staple industries is not due to the slower rise in fixed costs, as Schmalenbach believes, but to the complex manu- facture of goods nearer to consumption, which is too intri- cate for cartel agreements. Furthermore, it is due to the dis- persal of production over numerous enterprises that are more vulnerable to competition by outsiders. The fixed costs, according to Schmalenbach, prod an en- terprise to embark upon expansion in spite of lacking de- 66 67  mand. There are facilities in each plant that are used very little; even at full plant operation they are working with de- gressive costs. To utilize these facilities better the plant is enlarged. "Thus whole industries are expanding their capac- ities wit