bor. No one whose vision is unclouded by party politics can deny that Prussia-Germany of the prewar era was more suited than any other country before or since to conduct socialistic ex- periments. The tradition of Prussian officialdom, the faith of all educated people in the calling of the state, the military- hierarchic classification of the population, its inclination to blindly obey the authorities, all provided the prerequisites for socialism given nowhere else. Never can there be men more suited for the management of a socialistic communal operation than the mayors of German cities or the directors of the Prussian railroad. They did everything possible to make communal enterprises work. If, in spite of these ad- vantages the system failed, it proved conclusively that the system just cannot be realized. Suddenly the Social Democrats came to power in Ger- many and Austria. For many decades they had announced time and again that their genuine socialism had nothing in common with the false socialism of the etatists, and that they would proceed completely differently from the bureau- crats and professors. Now was the time to demonstrate what they could do. But they could not come up with anything new except the term "socialization." In 1918 and 1919, all political parties in Germany and Austria added the sociali- zation of suitable industries to their programs. At that time no step on the way to pure socialism of the Marxian variety met serious resistance. Even so, what was realized did not exceed in direction or scope that which the Socialists of the Chair had recommended earlier, or in many cases had al- ready tried. Only a few day-dreamers in Munich believed that the example of Lenin and Trotsky in agrarian Russia could be emulated in industrial Germany without causing an unprecedented crisis. Socialism did not fail because of ideological resistance- the prevailing ideology is socialistic even today. It failed be- cause of its unrealizability. As the general awar