es the private property and the public property orders. He mocked all attempts at a third order as "bourgeois." The position of etatism is different. From the start it did not seek to under- stand, but to judge. It brought along preconceived ethical opinions: "It shall be!" and "It shall not be!" All things were chaotic as long as the state did not intervene. Only govern- ment intervention could put an end to the arbitrariness of self-seeking individuals. The idea that a social order could be based on a constitution under which the state would do nothing but protect private property in the means of pro- duction seemed utterly absurd to it. It only had ridicule for the "enemies of the state" who believed in such a "pre- established harmony." The etatists thought it utterly illogical to reject every government "intervention" in economic life, as this would lead to anarchism. If government intervention for the protection of private property is permissible, it is il- logical to reject all further intervention. The only reasonable economic order is a social order in which private property exists in name, but actually is abolished, the state holding the final reins over production and distribution. The state of affairs at the zenith of liberalism could come into exis- 93  tence only because the state neglected its duties and granted too much freedom to individuals. With such a point of view, the development of a catallactic system is unnecessary, in- deed illogical. The best example for the ideology of the welfare state is the balance of payments theory. A country may lose all its monetary metal if the state does not intervene, so runs the older, mercantilist version. The classical economists demon- strated, however, that the danger so dreaded by the mercan- tilists does not exist, because forces are at work that, in the long run, prevent the loss of money. This is why the quan- tity theory was always so objectionable to etatists. They fa- vored the Banking School. The vi