ect. If wages are freely determined in the labor market, no raise in wages above the market rate can occur as a result of interventions, such as the shortening of labor time, mandatory insurance of workers at the expense of employers, regulations of work- shop conditions, vacations of workers with full pay, et cetera. All these costs are shifted to wages and are borne by 17. See my Gemeinwirtschaft, Jena, 1922, p. 382 et seq. [English-language edition: Socialism (London: Jonathan Cape, 1936), p. 391 et seq. ], also my Liberalismus, Jena, 1927, p. 80 et seq. [English-language edition: The Free and Prosperous Common- wealth (New York: D. Van Nostrand Co., Inc., 1962), p. 92 et seq.]. 18. Clark, op. cit., p. 455. 48 49  the workers. This fact could be overlooked because such social interventions were introduced mainly at a time when real wages were rising and the purchasing power of money was falling. Thus, net wages paid to workers continued to rise in terms of both money and purchasing power despite the ever-rising social costs placed on the employer. His calculations include not only the workers' wages, but also all costs resulting from their employment. Clark's further remarks have no bearing on our problem. He believes that wage increases, like other interventions on behalf of workers, "may prove self-sustaining through rais- ing the level of personal efficiency, through furnishing an added stimulus to the employer's search for improved methods, and through hastening the elimination of the least efficient employers and transfering their business to those who will conduct it more efficiently." 19 All this can also be said about an earthquake or any other natural catastrophe. Professor Clark is trained too well in theory and is too per- ceptive not to notice how untenable his reasoning actually is. He concludes, therefore, that the question of whether or not a given intervention is a "violation of economic law" is ba- sically "a question of degree." In the final ana