We destroy economics if all its investigations are rejected as inadmissible. We can observe today how many young minds, who under other circumstances would have turned to economic problems, spend themselves on research that does not suit their talents and, therefore, adds little to science. Enmeshed in the errors described above, they shun significant scientific tasks. 40 41  7. The Historical and Practical Arguments for Interventionism Put on the spot by economic criticism, the representatives of the Historical-Realistic School finally appeal to the "facts." It cannot be denied, they assert, that all the theoreti- cally unsuitable interventions were actually made, and con- tinue to be made. We cannot believe, they contend, that economic practice did not notice this alleged unsuitabil- ity. But interventionist norms survived for hundreds of years, and since the decline of liberalism, the world is ruled again by interventionism. All this is said to be sufficient proof that the system is realizable and successful, and not at all illogical. The rich literature of the Historical-Realistic School on the history of economic policies is said to confirm the doctrines of interventionism.8 The fact that measures have been taken, and continue to be taken, does not prove that they are suitable. It only proves that their sponsors did not recognize their unsuitabil- ity. In fact, contrary to the beliefs of the "empirics," it is not so easy to comprehend the significance of an economic measure. We cannot understand its significance without an insight into the workings of the whole economy, that is, without a comprehensive theory. The authors of works on economic history, economic descriptions, economic poli- cies, and economic statistics usually proceed much too thoughtlessly. Without the necessary theoretical knowledge they engage in tasks for which they are completely unpre- pared. Whatever the authors of the source material did not 8. Zwiedineck-Südenhorst, "Macht oder ökonomis