hat prewar Germany could easily have quashed a strike in essential enterprises by calling the strik- ers to active military duty. Postwar republican Germany no longer has this power at its disposal. And yet, despite the Social-Democratic Party's supremacy, it has successfully taken a stand against strikes in essential enterprises and thus has expressly granted protection to workers willing to work. In the Russia of the Soviets, a strike is utterly impos- sible. Kautsky and Lenin completely agree that willing workers must be permitted to render a strike against vital facilities ineffective. Etatism trusts in the wisdom and attitude of government officials. "Our officials are learning soon enough," writes Knapp, how things look in the clash of economic interests. They will not let the reins slip out of their hands, not even to parliamentary majorities, which we 76 77  know how to handle so well. No rule is born so eas- ily, in fact, perceived so gratefully as that of high- minded, very learned officials. The German state is officialdom, let us hope that it will always remain that. It should then be rather easy to overcome the confusion and error of economic struggles. 10 Brentano and his School lacked this faith in the infallibility of government officials, on which they based their very claim to being "liberal." But over the years, the two schools have come very close: the Brentano School advocated na- tionalization or municipalization of a number of enter- prises, and the Schmoller School emphasized the activity of labor unions. For a long time, their positions on foreign trade policies separated the two schools. Brentano rejected protectionism, while the majority of etatists pursued it. On this point the etatists have made some concessions; an am- biguous free-trade resolution, devised in 1923 by university professors meeting at Stuttgart, revealed this change. Brentano himself sought to describe their differences in the fundamental questions of social policy as fo