t order is preferable to the capitalist order. But they clearly understood that, except for syndicalism which they did not see, the only alternatives are capitalism and social- ism, and that "intervention" in the functioning of the pri- vate property order, which is so popular with both people and government, is unsuitable. The tools of science do not enable us to sit in judgment of the "justice" of a social institution or order. Surely, we may decry this or that as "unjust" or "improper"; but if we cannot substitute anything better for what we condemn, it behooves us to save our words. But all this does not concern us here. Only this matters for us: no one ever succeeded in demonstrating that, disre- garding syndicalism, a third social order is conceivable and possible other than that based on private property in the means or production or that built on public property. The 36 37  middle system of property that is hampered, guided, and regulated by government is in itself contradictory and illogi- cal. Any attempt to introduce it in earnest must lead to a crisis from which either socialism or capitalism alone can emerge. This is the irrefutable conclusion of economics. He who undertakes to recommend a third social order of regulated private property must flatly deny the possibility of scientific knowledge in the field of economics. The Historical School in Germany did just that, and the Institutionalists in the U.S. are doing it today. Economics is formally abolished, prohibited, and replaced by state and police science, which registers what government has decreed, and recommends what still is to be decreed. They fully realize that they are harking back to mercantilism, even to the canon doctrine of just price, and are discarding all the work of economics. The German Historical School and its many followers abroad never thought it necessary to cope with the problems of catallactics. They were completely satisfied with the argu- ments which Gustav Schmoller presente