its realization. Socialism seeks its realiza- tion in the world of thought, the socialistic move- ment in the world of reality. All theoretical efforts toward revealing the desired goal to the aspiring proletariat, toward calling it to arms, organizing for battle, and showing the road on which the goal can be reached, all comprise what we call modern so- cialism. 30 One thing is noticeable in this definition: it is Marxian. It is no coincidence that Sombart deems it proper to adopt this definition unchanged from his first edition, from the time when, by his own admission, he was still walking in the footsteps of Marx. It contains an important element from the Marxian world of thought: socialism suits the interests of the proletariat. This is a specific Marxian thought that is meaningful only within the framework of the whole Marx- ian structure. "Utopian" socialism of the pre-Marxian era and the state socialism in recent decades acted, not in the interests of one class but on behalf of all classes and the col- lective whole. Marxism introduced the two axioms that so- ciety is divided into classes whose interests conflict irrecon- cilably, and that the interests of the proletariat-realizable through class war only-are demanding nationalization of the means of production, in accordance with their own in- terests and contrary to those of the other classes. This very thought returns in various places in the book. At one place Sombart observes that very few influential Marxian writers come from the proletariat "and therefore are only interested parties."31 And then point-blank: "The proletariat belongs to the system of capitalism; the inevita- bility of hostility toward capitalists springs from the class conditions of the proletariat. This hostility assumes certain forms in the social movement: labor unions, socialistic par- ties, strikes, etc." 32 It cannot be denied that the materialistic philosophy of history is visible here in full display. To be sure, Sombart does n