rotected labor groups would have to work less. The writings of the "Socialists of the Chair" have been rightly criticized in that, in the final analysis, there can be no objective concept of productivity and that all judgments on economic goals are subjective. But when we assert that pro- duction restrictions reduce labor productivity, we do not yet enter the field where differences in subjective judgments prohibit observations on the goals and means of action. When the formation of nearly autarkic economic blocs hampers the international division of labor, preventing the advantages of specialized large-scale production and the employment of labor at the most advantageous locations, we face undesirable consequences on which the opinions of most inhabitants of the earth should not differ. To be sure, some may believe that the advantages of autarky outweigh its disadvantages. In the discussion of the pros and cons its advocates brazenly assert that autarky does not diminish the quantity and quality of economic goods, or else they do not speak about it openly and clearly. Obviously, they are fully aware that their propaganda would be less effective if they were to admit the whole truth of the consequences. All production restrictions directly hamper some produc- tion inasmuch as they prevent certain employment oppor- 22 tunities that are open to the goods of higher order (land, capital, labor). By its very nature, a government decree that "it be" cannot create anything that has not been created be- fore. Only the naive inflationists could believe that govern- ment could enrich mankind through fiat money. Govern- ment cannot create anything; its orders cannot even evict anything from the world of reality, but they can evict from the world of the permissible. Government cannot make man richer, but it can make him poorer. With most production restrictions this is so clear that their sponsors rarely dare openly claim credit for the restrictions. Many generations of writers