aw and administration to workers willing to work. In fact, it is irrelevant for our analysis whether the apparatus of coercion imposing the controls is the "legiti- mate" state apparatus or a sanctioned apparatus with public power. If a minimum wage that exceeds the unhampered market rate is imposed on a particular industry, its costs of production are raised, the price of the final product must rise, and correspondingly, sales must decline. Workers lose their jobs, which depresses wages in other industries. Up to this point we may agree with the wage fund theory on the effects of nonmarket wage boosts. That which the workers in one industry are gaining is lost by the workers in other industries. In order to avoid such consequences, the imposition of minimum wages must be accompanied by the prohibition to dismiss workers. The prohibition in turn reduces the industry's rate of return because unneeded workers must be paid, or they are used and paid in full pro- duction while their output is sold at a loss. Industrial activ- ity then tends to decline. If this, too, is to be prevented, government must intervene again with new regulations. If the minimum wage is not limited to a few industries, but is imposed on all industries of an isolated economy, or on the world economy, the rise in product prices caused by 148 it cannot lead to a reduction in consumption.2 The higher wages raise the workers' spending power. They can now buy the higher-priced products coming to the market. (To be sure, there may be shifting within the industries.) If en- trepreneurs and capitalists do not want to consume their capital they must limit their consumption since their money income has not risen and they are unable to pay the higher prices. To the extent of this reduction in consumption, the general wage boost has given the workers a share of entre- preneurial profits and capital income. The workers' real raise is visible in that prices do not rise by the full amount of the wage boost beca