il to achieve their objec- tives, and that the desired etatist objectives can be achieved only when private property exists in name only and a central authority regulates all production. Moeller observes cor- rectly that the younger Historical School opposed classical economics for practical reasons: "Schmoller did not care to see his road to scientific justification of social policy blocked by the concept of an external economic regularity indepen- dent of man." But Moeller is mistaken when he comments on Rist's remark that the classical school did not uphold the general validity of economic laws. He is mistaken when he asserts that "it was not the 'laws' of classical economics 85  properly understood that were blocking the way." 28 Indeed, they stood in the way because they revealed that govern- ment intervention in the operations of a capitalistic social order is incapable of achieving the desired results, which leaves the alternative either to renounce such intervention or go the whole way and assume control over the means of production. On this fact all the critique by the Historical- Realistic School missed its mark. It was irrelevant that these economic laws were not "natural laws" and that private property was not eternal, but "only" a historical-legal cate- gory. The new economics should have replaced the theory of catallactics developed by Physiocrats and classical econo- mists with another system that did not demonstrate the fu- tility of government intervention. Because it could not do so, it had to reject categorically all "theoretical" investiga- tions of economic problems. At times it has been said that there are several kinds of economics. This is no more correct than that there are sev- eral biologies and several physics. Surely in every science various hypotheses, interpretations, and arguments seek to solve concrete problems. But logic is consistent in every science. It is true also of economics. The Historical-Realistic School itself, which for p