is true of wages, a topic on which the Socialists of the Chair loved to expound, how much more must it apply to all other problems! We are gaining the same impression from all other collec- tions of essays this School has published. In Outlines of So- cial Economics Austrian economists dealt with the history of thought and with economic theory. And the classical contri- butions by Menger, Böhm-Bawerk, Wieser, and a few other "theorists" are the only essays of lasting interest in the ten- thousand-page collection of the third edition of the Hand- book of Social Sciences. There is yet another comprehensive Festschrift that seeks to present the entire science in monographs. But there are signs that such collections covering motley problems, tor- turing readers and embarrassing librarians, are gradually being replaced with collections dealing with one set of prob- 4. Ibid., vol. I, p. viii. 5. Bernhard, "Der Arbeitslohn" [Wages] in ibid., vol. I, XI, p. 11 et seq. lems only. On the occasion of the eightieth birthday of Lujo Brentano, the veteran dean of academic socialism in and outside Germany, his students published Economics Af- ter the War. 6 Naturally, the quality of the individual contributions var- ies greatly. And it need not be emphasized that the twenty- nine contributors worked independently and took no notice of each other's theories and ideologies. But a common thread appears throughout the works-especially those the editors thought most important and which Brentano prob- ably read with greatest delight-namely, the intention to defend and elaborate the "Brentano system." The external conditions for such a task are less favorable today than sev- enteen years ago. When the Schmoller Festschrift appeared, academic socialism and Historical-Realistic economics stood at the zenith of their reputation and political influence. A great deal has changed since then. The Schmoller Festschrift had the sound of a fanfare. The Brentano Festschrift is call- ing for discuss