s the place of critique. Bren- tano thought it proper to introduce a critique of Böhm-Ba- 34. See Brentano, Agrarpolitik [Agricultural policy], Stuttgart, 1897, pp. 60 et seq., 83 et seq. 90 werk's Capital and Interest-a critique which, by the way, no one appreciated in the seventeen years since its publication -with the following: "As one of my first-semester students correctly remarked. . . . "35 The Russian professor Toto- mianz, an Armenian, writes in his History of Economics and Socialism: A German critic of the psychological school ironi- cally observes, not without a kernel of truth, that the soil in which the Austrian School grew was the city of Vienna with its numerous students and officers. For a young student seeking the pleasures of life pres- ent goods naturally are more valuable than future goods. Similarly, a dashing officer chronically suffer- ing from lack of cash will pay any interest rate on borrowed money.36 This book with such a profound critique of Böhm-Bawerk's theory first appeared in the Russian language. Rist wrote an introduction to the French edition, Loria to the Italian edi- tion, and Masaryk to the Czech edition. In his introduction to the German edition, Herkner acclaims the work for being "popular and perceptual." All significant and fruitful thoughts in Great Britain, France, Germany, Austria, Bel- gium, Italy, Russia, and America find "loving and under- 35. Brentano, Konkrete Grundbedingungen der Volkswirtschaft [Concrete conditions of economy], Leipzig, 1924, p. 113. 36. V. Totomianz, Geschichte der Nationalökonomie und des Socialismus [History of economics and socialism], Jena, 1925, p. 152. Even if we disregard this critique of Böhm-Bawerk, the Totomianz effort is wholly unsatisfactory and mistaken. He states, for instance, on p. 146: "While Menger's achievement mainly was the devel- opment of a new methodology, the two other representatives of the Austrian School, Böhm-Bawerk and Wieser, built a sagacious psychological value th