tio in adjecto. If today the Brentano School, which adopted syndical- ism, and some "moderate" etatists designate their move- ment as "social liberalism," no terminological objection need be raised. But we must object-not for political rea- sons, but in the interest of scientific clarity and logical thought-that this designation erases the differences be- tween liberalism and socialism. It permits calling "liberal" that which is the very opposite of what history and social science define as liberal. The fact that in Great Britain, the home of liberalism, this semantic confusion prevails is no excuse for us to accede to the practice. Herkner is correct when he observes that the sanctity of private property is not a dogmatically anchored objective for liberalism, but a means for the attainment of ultimate goals. He is mistaken, however, when he states that this is so 78 79  "only temporarily."12 In their highest and ultimate goal liberalism and socialism are in agreement. They differ pre- cisely in that liberalism views private property in the means of production as the most suitable means to attain the goal, while socialism looks upon public property as the most suit- able means. This difference in the two programs, and this alone, corresponds to the history of thought during the nineteenth century. Their different positions on the prob- lem of property in production separates liberalism from so- cialism. It is confusing to present this in any other way. Socialism, according to Herkner, "is an economic system in which society organized in a state directly assumes re- sponsibility for the existence of all its members. As an eco- nomic system based on satisfying the national needs rather than gleaning profits, the whole production and distribu- tion process becomes the task of public authority, replacing private property in the means of production and their use for profit."13 This is not very precise, but is stated clearly enough. Herkner then continues, "If this syste