. The social ideal of etatism is a special kind of socialism, such as state socialism or, under certain condi- tions, military or religious socialism. On the surface the so- cial ideal of etatism does not differ from the social order of 140 capitalism. Etatism does not seek to overthrow the tradi- tional legal order and formally convert all private property in production to public property. Only the largest enter- prises in industry, mining, and transportation are to be na- tionalized. In agriculture, and in medium- and small-scale production, private property is to be preserved formally. But in substance all enterprises are to become government operations. Under this practice, the owners will keep their names and trademarks on the property and the right to an "appropriate" income or one "befitting their ranks." Every business becomes an office and every occupation a civil ser- vice. There is no room for entrepreneurial independence in any of the varieties of state socialism. Prices are set by gov- ernment, and government determines what is to be pro- duced, how it is to be produced, and in what quantities. There is no speculation, no "extraordinary" profits, no losses. There is no innovation, except for that ordered by government. Government guides and supervises every- thing. It is one of the peculiarities of etatist doctrine that it can envision man's social life only in terms of its special socialis- tic ideal. The outer similarity between the "social state" it extols and the social order based on private property in pro- duction causes it to overlook the essential difference that separates them. To the etatist, any dissimilarity of the two social orders is merely a temporary irregularity and a pun- ishable violation of government orders. The state has slack- ened the reins, which it must pull short again, and every- thing will be in the best of order. The fact that man's social life is subject to certain conditions, to regularity like that of nature, is a conce