, but its findings are pur- ported to go beyond Marx. Thus, he differs from the publi- cations of party Marxists whose findings are rigidly circum- scribed by party doctrine. Sombart built his reputation as a Marxist and scholar in 1896 with his little book Socialism and the Social Movement during the Nineteenth Century. The booklet saw several edi- tions, and each new edition gave evidence of the changes in Sombart's position on the problems of socialism and the so- cial movement. The tenth edition, revised, is now available in two imposing volumes. 24 It is to demonstrate and justify his turning away from Marxism-but not from socialism. In fact, the two volumes do not deal with socialism as such, but rather with "proletarian socialism," with "Marxism." Sombart deals only with a history and critique of Marxian socialism. He avoids revealing his own social doctrine, which he briefly touches upon in a few places. With visible satisfaction he speaks of the old associations of the Middle Ages-church, town, village, clan, family, vocation- "which contained the individual, warmed him, and pro- tected him like a fruit in its peel." And with visible horror he speaks of that "process of disintegration which shattered the world of faith and replaced it with knowledge." 25 The ideology of proletarian socialism is seen as an expression of this disintegration process. And between the lines he is re- proaching proletarian socialism for its express preference for modern industrialism. "Whatever socialistic critique may have raised against capitalism, it never objected on grounds that capitalism has blessed us with railroads and factories, steel furnaces and machines, telegraph wires and motorcy- 24. W. Sombart, Der proletarische Sozialismus, Marxismus [Proletarian socialism, Marxism], 10th ed., rev., of Sozialismus und soziale Bewegung [Socialism and social movement], Jena, 1924; vol. I, The Doctrine, vol. II, The Movement. 25. Ibid., vol. I, p. 31. 128 cles, record players and a