omic order to the new one." "The old great era of the nineteenth century, the epoch of free enterprise, was possible only when pro- duction costs generally were proportional in nature. It ceased to be possible when the proportion of fixed costs be- 6. Schmalenbach, "Die Betriebswirtschaftslehre an der Schwelle der neuen Wirt- schaftsverfassung" [The doctrines of business administration at the dawn of a new economic constitution] in Zeitschrift für Handelswissenschaftliche Forschung [Journal for trade research], 22nd year, 1928, p. 244 et seq. came ever more significant." Since the growth of fixed costs has not yet stopped and will probably continue for a long time, it is obviously hopeless to count on a return of the free economy.7 Schmalenbach at first offers proof for the relative rise in fixed costs with the remark that the continuous growth of enterprise size "is necessarily connected with an expansion, even a relative expansion, of the department that is heading the whole organization."8 I doubt that. The superiority of a larger enterprise consists, among other things, in manage- rial costs lower than those of smaller enterprises. The same is true for the commercial departments, especially the sales organizations. Of course, Schmalenbach is completely correct when he emphasizes that the costs of management and many other general costs cannot be reduced substantially when the en- terprise works only at one-half or one-fourth of its capacity. But as management costs decline with the growth of the en- terprise, calculated per unit of output, they are less signifi- cant in this age of big business and giant enterprises than formerly in the age of smaller operations. But Schmalenbach's emphasis is not here; it lies on the rise in capital intensity. He believes that he can simply con- clude from the continuous formation of new capital and progressive application of machines and equipment- which is undoubtedly true in a capitalist economy-that the ratio of fixed costs