at decide what is to be produced and how it is produced, then we have socialism even if we retain the private property label. Othmar Spann is completely correct when he calls such a system "a private property order in a formal sense, but socialism in sub- stance."2 Public ownership in the means of production is nothing but socialism or communism. However, interventionism does not want to go that far. It does not seek to abolish private property in production; it merely wants to limit it. On the one hand, it considers un- limited private property harmful to society, and on the other hand, it deems the public property order unrealizable com- pletely, at least for the present. Therefore, it seeks to create a third order: a social system that occupies the center be- tween the private property order and the public property order. Thus, it seeks to avoid the "excesses" and evils of capitalism, but to retain the advantages of individual initia- tive and industry which socialism cannot bring forth. The champions of this private property order, which is guided, regulated, and controlled by the state and other so- cial organizations, are making demands that have always been made by political leaders and masses of people. When economics was yet unknown, and man was unaware that goods prices cannot be "set" arbitrarily but are narrowly de- termined by the market situation, government commands sought to regulate economic life. Only classical economics revealed that all such interventions in the functioning of the market can never achieve the objectives which the authori- ties aim to achieve. The old liberalism which built its eco- nomic policies on the teachings of classical economics there- fore categorically rejected all such interventions. Laissez faire et laissez passer! Even Marxian socialists have not judged in- terventionism any differently from the classical liberals. 2. Othmar Spann, Der wahre Staat [The true state], Leipzig, 1921, p. 249. They sought to demonstrate the