ke to assert, as do the noisy Social-Democrat and Communist party literati, that this Anti-Marxism ap- proves of or in any way defends capitalism and private property in the means of production. No matter what train of thought it may pursue, it is no less anticapitalistic than Marxist. Only scientific Anti-Marxism is discussed in what fol- lows. The Anti-Marxism of practical politics will be touched upon only insofar as it is absolutely essential for an under- standing of the intellectual movement. 1. Weltwirtschaftliches Archiv [Archives for world economy], vol. 21, 1925. * Editor's note: In Germany they later came to call themselves National Socialists, or Nazis. 106 107  1. Marxism in German Science Usually only those writers can be called Marxists who, as members of a Marxian party, are obliged to indicate ap- proval in their writings of the Marxian doctrines as canon- ized by party conventions. Their scholarship can be no more than "scholasticism." Their writings aim at preserving the "purity" of the true doctrine, and their proofs consist of quotations from authorities-in the final analysis Marx and Engels. Again and again they conclude that "bourgeois" science has completely collapsed, and that truth can be sought only in Marxism. Every piece of writing then closes with the reassuring remark that in the future socialistic par- adise all social problems will find a very satisfactory solution. These Marxian writings are significant only inasmuch as they have promoted the careers of their authors. They have nothing whatsoever to do with science, and, as shall be shown, not even with German science that is so greatly in- fluenced by the doctrines of Marx. Not a single thought has emerged from the voluminous writings of the epigones. Nothing remains but horrible waste and incessant repeti- tion. The great struggles that shook the Marxian parties-on revisionism, dictatorship, et cetera-were not scientific; they were purely political discussions. The scientific meth