mental to politics, as is frequently observed, but even much more so to business. Many large enterprises must give thousands of considera- tions to political matters, which plants the seeds of bureau- cratism. But all this does not justify the proposals to bureau- cratize completely and formally all production through the nationalization of credit. Where would the German econ- omy be today if credit had been nationalized as early as 1890, or even 1860? Who can be aware of the developments that will be prevented if it is nationalized today? 3. The Danger of Overexpansion and Immobilization What has been said here applies to every attempt at trans- ferring private enterprises, especially the banking system, into the hands of the state, which in its effects would amount to all-round nationalization. But in addition, it would create credit problems that must not be overlooked. Deumer seeks to show that the credit monopoly could not be abused for fiscal reasons. But the dangers of credit na- tionalization do not lie here; they lie with the purchasing power of money. As is well known, demand deposits subject to checks have the same effect on the purchasing power of a monetary unit as bank notes. Deumer even proposes an issue of "guaran- teed certificates" or "clearing house certificates" that are never to be redeemed.6 In short, the national bank will be in the position to inflate. Public opinion always wants "easy money," that is, low interest rates. But it is the very function of the note-issuing bank to resist such demands, protecting its own solvency and maintaining the parity of its notes toward foreign notes and gold. If the bank should be excused from the redemp- tion of its certificates it would be free to expand its credits in accordance with the politicians' wishes. It would be too weak to resist the clamor of credit applicants. But the bank- ing system is to be nationalized, in Deumer's words, "to pay heed to the complaints of small industrial enterprises and m