st part. Sombart rejects the thought that socialism is a social order based on public property in the means of production. Ob- viously, the concept of socialism would have to be a social one, or of the social sciences, he argues, and could not be from a special field of social life, such as the economy. The emotions accompanying the controversy over socialism re- veal that the term socialism must comprise yet deeper prob- lems than "economic technology."28 But the definition Sombart then offers must finally return-although with am- biguity-to the only relevant characteristic of socialism. Af- ter lengthy discussions he arrives at the conclusion that the idea of socialism always comprises the following com- ponents: 1. The ideal of a rational condition of society is to be contrasted with a historical condition that is irra- 28. See Sombart, Sozialismus und soziale Bewegung, op. cit., vol. I, p. 5 et seq. 130 tional: that is, an evaluation of social conditions as perfect or less perfect. Certain features of the ideal that are common to all kinds of socialism relate to the anti-capitalistic essence of socialism: socialism ob- viously must reject an economy for profit because of its irrational objectives that spring from its guiding principle. As money symbolizes the capitalistic economy for profit, it is as such a favorite target of socialistic critique. All evil of this world comes from the struggle over the ring of the Nibelungs; there- fore, socialism wants to return the gold to the Rhine. In the manner socialism opposes the "free" economy it also opposes its foundation: "free," i.e., private, prop- erty and the "free," i.e., labor, contract. It gives rise to exploitation, the worst blemish of social life, the era- dication of which is an essential program for all kinds of socialism. 2. Valuation of social conditions and adoption of a rational ideal necessarily correspond to the recogni- tion of moral freedom, the freedom to strive for a realm of objectives with one