cy. Again and again, governments have tried to enforce old prices in spite of coin debasement and expansion of circulat- ing money. They did so again in the most recent and great- est of all inflation periods, during the World War. On the very day printing presses were put into the service of gov- ernment finance, rising prices were fought with criminal law. Let us assume that this at first succeeded. And let us disregard the fact that the supply of goods was reduced by the war, which affected the exchange ratio between eco- 146 nomic goods and money. Let us further ignore increased demand for money due to delayed money delivery or clear- ing system limitations and other restrictions. We merely wish to analyze the consequences of a policy that aims at stabiliz- ing prices while the quantity of money is enlarged. The ex- pansion of money creates new demand that did not exist be- fore, "new purchasing power," as it is called. When the new buyers compete with those already in the market, and prices are not permitted to rise, only a part of demand can be satisfied. There are potential buyers who are willing to pay the price, but cannot find a supply. Government, which is circulating the newly created money, is seeking thereby to redirect commodities and services from previous uses to more desirable uses. It wants to buy them, not to commandeer them, which it certainly could do. Its intent is that money, only money, shall buy everything, and that potential buyers shall not be frustrated in their search for economic goods. After all, government itself wants to buy, it wants to use the market, not destroy it. The official price is destroying the market on which com- modities and services are exchanged for money. Wherever possible, the exchange continues in other ways. For in- stance, people resort to barter transactions, that is, to ex- change without the interaction of money. Government, which is ill-prepared for such transactions because it owns no exchangeable goods, ca