hers formally remain in the hands of their owners, but must be managed in accor- dance with the plan of the authorities. Thus, every business becomes a public office, and every occupation an "appoint- ment." At the time serious consideration was still given to the So- cial-Democratic program to transfer formally all means of production to society, there seemed to exist a considerable, although not fundamental, difference between the program of the etatists and that of the Social Democrats. Today the Social-Democratic program simply calls for an immediate nationalization of large enterprises, while trade shops and farms are to be under the control of the state. In this respect, etatists and socialists are much closer today than they were a dozen years ago. However, the fundamental difference between the social ideals of etatism and the Social Democrats existed in the problem of income distribution, not in the nationalization program. It was self-evident to the Social Democrats that all income differences were to disappear. But etatism meant to distribute income according to "dignity." Everyone was to receive according to his rank. On this point as well, the gap dividing Social Democrats and etatists has narrowed con- siderably. Etatism, too, is genuine socialism, although it may differ 8. Also in the restructuring of society by Othmar Spann, Der wahre Staat [The true state], Leipzig, 1921, p. 249. Cf. Honigheim, Romantische und religiös-mystisch ver- ankerte Wirtschaftsgesinnungen [Romantic and religiously-mystically rooted eco- nomic opinions], vol. I, p. 264. 9. See Philipp von Arnim, Ideen zu einer vollständigen Landwirtschaftlichen Buch- haltung [Ideas on complete agricultural accounting], 1805, quoted by Waltz, Vom Reinertrag in der Landwirtschaft [On the net return in agriculture], Stuttgart and Ber- lin, 1904, p. 21. 74 75  in a few points from the socialism of the Communist Mani- festo and the Erfurt Program. What is essential alone is its position on the pro