reduction in economic productivity." His critique merely 2. Lampe, Notstandarbeiten oder Lohnabbau? [Public works or wage reductions?], Jena, 1927, p. 104 et seq. 3. On "pre-established harmony" see further my essay below, "Anti-Marxism." 60 61  demonstrates that interventions cannot achieve the objec- tives which their authors and promoters want to achieve, and that they must have consequences which even their au- thors and sponsors did not want and which run counter to their own intentions. This is what the apologists of inter- ventionism must answer. But they are without an answer. Lampe presents a program of "productive intervention- ism" consisting of three points.4 The first point is that the public authority "must possibly stand for a slow reduction of the wage level." At least Lampe does not deny that any "public authority" attempt at holding wage rates above those an unhampered market would establish must create unemployment. But he overlooked the fact that his own pro- posal would bring about, to a lesser degree and for a limited time, the intervention which he himself knew to be unsuit- able. When compared with such vague and incomplete pro- posals, the advocates of all-round controls have the advan- tage of seeming logical. Lampe reproaches me for not caring how long the transitional frictional unemployment will last and how severe it may be.5 Now, without intervention it neither will last long nor affect many. But undoubtedly the enactment of Lampe's proposal can only bring about its pro- longed duration and its aggravated severity. Even Lampe cannot deny this in the light of his other discussion. Anyway, we must bear in mind that a critique of inter- ventionism does not ignore the fact that when some produc- tion interventions are eliminated special frictions are gener- ated. If, for instance, all import restrictions were lifted today, the greatest difficulties would be evident for a short time, but there would soon be an unprecedented rise in the prod