he efforts of German economics during the nineteenth century.3 A summary of the forty monographs of this book was never written. The preface expressly states that it must 1. Zeitschrift für die Gesamte Staatswissenschaft [Journal for all the social sciences], vol. 81, 1926. 2. Volkswirtschaftslehre der Gegenwart in Selbstdarstellung [Contemporary econom- ics in an autobiography], edited by Dr. Felix Meiner, vol. I, Leipzig, 1924, p. 113. 3. Die Entwicklung der deutschen Volkswirtschaftslehre im 19. Jahrhundert [The devel- opment of German economics during the ninteenth century], Leipzig, 1908, two volumes. 71  be left to a future analysis to take stock of the nature and ex- tent of the progress of German economic science as a whole.4 If anyone had tried to write this analysis, it undoubtedly would have been disappointing. The summary more than the individual monographs would have revealed how few of its goals the School did achieve. It would have shown how the School, whenever it touched upon fundamental ques- tions, could not escape borrowing from the discoveries of a theoretical school that is quite low in its esteem. In each contribution that merely half-way meets its requirements, the work of economic theorists is clearly visible despite the fact that they stood apart from the School and were attacked by it. Bernhard's contribution on wages, for instance, ar- rives at the conclusion that "the Historical-Statistical School barely touched the main problem of wages." It merely launched detailed investigations, but on the great questions it "finally could stutter only the confession: the processes are more complicated than the sum of our detailed investi- gations. There would be no new German research if it were not for the so-called abstract Austrian School."5 If this is true of wages, a topic on which the Socialists of the Chair loved to expound, how much more must it apply to all other problems! We are gaining the same impression from all other collec- tions of e