of the liberal doctrine of free movement and migration of labor. This was their war objective, which they adhered to completely. Countless Germans living abroad were uprooted, deprived of their possessions and earnings, and "repatriated." Today, strict laws either prohibit or limit immigration not only to the 19. I sought to explain it in my book Nation, Staat und Wirtschaft [Nation, state, and economy], Vienna, 1919, p. 45 et seq. 123  United States, but even to important European areas. And the labor unions of the United States and Australia unhesi- tatingly would favor a new, more horrible and bloody world war if it should become necessary to defend the immigra- tion restrictions against an aggressor, such as the Japanese or a rearmed Germany. Here are insurmountable difficulties for the Marxian doc- trines and the policy of the Communist International. Theo- rists sought to escape the difficulties by not mentioning them. It is characteristic that the copious prewar German literature on economic and social policy, which again and again dealt with the same matter in tiring detail, contains no work that could explain the policy of immigration restric- tions. And abroad only a few writers dared touch a topic that obviously did not harmonize with the doctrine of the workers' class solidarity.20 This silence, better than any- thing else, reveals the Marxian bias in social literature, espe- cially German literature. When, finally, the international conventions of socialists could no longer escape dealing with this question, they skillfully circumvented it. Let us, for instance, read the minutes of the International Conven- tion of Socialists in Stuttgart, in 1907. It adopted a lame res- olution characterized by the recorder himself as rather "awkward and hard." But this should be blamed on circum- stances. A socialistic convention is not held "to write novels. Hard realities are colliding, which finds expression in this hard and awkward resolution." (This is a euphemis