cal thought and, through the problems it posed, greatly influenced even those writers who strove to reject it most vigorously. The majority did not repudiate the doctrine itself, but merely its political and practical consequences. In most cases they characterized the Marxian doctrine either as exaggerated, or going too far, or too one-sided, and therefore sought to complete it by add- ing new racial and nationalistic doctrines. The basic insuffi- ciency of the Marxian set of problems and the failure of all attempts at solving them were not seen at all. They em- barked upon historical research into the origin of the Marx- ian social philosophy, but ignored those few possibly de- fensible thoughts earlier elaborated much more concisely in France and England by such men as Taine and Buckle. Moreover, their main interest then focused upon a problem utterly insignificant for science-the famous doctrine of the "withering away" of the state. In this case, as with many of their other doctrines, Marx and Engels merely meant to find a slogan for agitation. On the one hand they wanted to fight anarchism, and on the other hand they sought to demon- strate that the "nationalization" of the means of production demanded by socialism had nothing in common with the nationalization and municipalization demanded by state and municipal socialism. It was understandable from the pont of view of party politics that the etatist critique of Marxism aimed especially at this point. It seemed so invit- ing to reveal the inner contradiction of the Marxian social doctrine, and to confront "the enemies of the state," Marx and Engels, with a believer in the state, Lassalle.7 The fact that German science had rejected the utilitarian social doctrine of the eighteenth century explains the suc- cess of Marxian social doctrine in Germany. 7. See B. H. Kelsen, Sozialismus und Staat [Socialism and state], 2nd ed., Leipzig, 1923. 111  The theological-metaphysical social doctrine explains and postulates s