of legal standards that form a superstructure over any property order and thereby any economic order. We must realize that these legal standards are decisive for the manner of cooperation of the various factors of production (that is, not only capital, land, and labor, but also the different categories of human la- bor). In short, we are dealing with that which com- prises the organization of production. This organiza- tion can only serve the objective of placing the momentary control conditions over the various pro- duction factors in the service of the whole economy. Only then does it have social character. Of course, these momentary control conditions, that is, the property order, constitute a part of the organization of production. But this does not lead to the conclu- sion that the organization would have to differ for the individualistic and the collectivistic economy. In fact, whether and how it can differ is the crucial question. 29 Here again, as with all representatives of etatism, is the notion that a legal structure placing private property "in the service of the whole economy" can achieve the objectives 29. Zwiedineck-Südenhorst, op. cit., vol. II, p. 430 et seq. 87  the authority meant to achieve. After all, Zwiedineck only recently took his position on the problem of "control or economic law," which is so characteristic of all Socialists of the Chair. 30 It is remarkable that all these literary efforts produced nothing new. Old errors that had been refuted a hundred times were dished up again. The question is not whether the power of the state "can" intervene in economic life. No economist would deny today that, for instance, the bomb- ing of a city or a prohibition of exports is possible. Even the freetrader does not deny that import duties are possible; he only maintains that protective tariffs do not have the effects the protectionists ascribe to them. And he who rejects price controls for being unsuitable does not deny that govern- ment can impose