, and the state will superintend "the performance of the duties incumbent on the monopoly."12 Surely, if for any reason we reject the return to a free economy, this con- 10. Schmalenbach, op. cit., p. 245. 11. Ibid., p. 247. clusion completely agrees with that to which every eco- nomic analysis of the problems of interventionism must lead. Interventionism as an economic system is unsuitable and illogical. Once this is recognized it leaves us with the choice between lifting all restrictions, or expanding them to a system in which government directs all business decisions -in which the state determines what to produce and how, under what conditions, and to whom the products must be sold. This is a system of socialism in which private property at best survives in name only. A discussion of the economy of a socialistic community does not belong with this analysis. I have dealt with it in an- other place. 13 12. Ibid., p. 249 et seq. 13. See Mises, Die Gemeinwirtschaft, Jena, 1922, p. 94 et seq. [English-language edition: Socialism (London: Jonathan Cape, 1936), p. 111 et seq. ] 68 69  SOCIAL LIBERALISM 1. Introduction Heinrich Herkner, president of the Association for Social Policy, recently published his autobiography under the sub- title "The Life of a Socialist of the Chair." In it he made it his task "to facilitate an understanding of the closing era of German academic socialism."2 In fact, it cannot be denied that the Socialists of the Chair have said everything they meant to say, and it seems their supremacy is now declin- ing. Therefore, it is time for an examination of their achieve- ments. On the occasion of Gustav Schmoller's seventieth birth- day, the most eminent members of the Historical-Realistic School cooperated in a work that was to present the results of the efforts of German economics during the nineteenth century.3 A summary of the forty monographs of this book was never written. The preface expressly states that it must 1. Zeitschrift für die Gesamt