6: "While Menger's achievement mainly was the devel- opment of a new methodology, the two other representatives of the Austrian School, Böhm-Bawerk and Wieser, built a sagacious psychological value theory." We must conclude from this statement that Menger contributed less to the develop- ment of the new value theory than Böhm-Bawerk and Wieser, which is not at all correct. Totomianz introduces his discussion of the marginal utility theory with the following statement: "The economy consists of economic goods. These goods re- late in a certain way to human well-being. This relationship is expressed in two different grades or stages: the lower stage and the higher stage. We are dealing with the higher stage when the economic good is not only useful, but also neces- sary for well-being, so that its possession or loss entails a loss of consumption or enjoyment." His discussion of other economists is not better. As I do not read Rus- sian, I cannot determine whether this nonsense must be charged to the Russian original or to the German translation. 91  standing consideration" with Totomianz. He shows "re- markable ability to do justice to such different minds as Fourier, Ruskin, Marx, Rodbertus, Schmoller, Menger, and Gide." 37 This Herkner judgment is all the stranger as he is very familiar with the history of economic thought. 38 In the Methodenstreit the Brentano wing of the Empirical- Realistic School acted more prudently than the followers of Schmoller. We must give personal credit to Brentano who, a generation earlier, leveled sharp criticism at the School's research in economic history. Many a writer of no more than excerpts from eco- nomic documents believes he has written an eco- nomic treatise. But when the excerpt is completed the economic analysis is just beginning. Its content must then be analyzed and transformed to a picture full of life, and the lesson must be drawn from this researched passage of life. It is not enough to be diligent in the preparation of