community of liberals still needs to be created and brought along." 27 Thus, the picture of what fully developed capitalism can achieve is incomplete at best, even if we reflect upon British society at the zenith of capitalism when liberalism was leading the way. It is popular today to blame capitalism for anything that displeases. Indeed, who is still aware of what he would have to forego if there were no "capitalism"? When great dreams do not come true, capitalism is charged imme- diately. This may be a proper procedure for party politics, but in scientific discussion it should be avoided. 26. Ibid. 27. Ibid., p. 16. 84 4. Control or Economic Law? Among the many mistakes to which the Socialists of the Chair of all varieties tenaciously cling is their faith in lim- ited government interventions in economic life. They are convinced that, except for syndicalism, there are three con- ceivable possibilities of control over the means of produc- tion in a society based on the division of labor. Besides public property and private property, there is the third possibility of private property that is subject to government regulation. The possibility and conceivability of this third system will be discussed in this section on the antithesis of "control or economic law." For the Socialists of the Chair this question had special political significance. They could maintain their claim of an impartial middle position between the Manchester School and communism only if they favored a social ideal that ap- parently was "equally distant" from the ideals of the two competing movements. They rejected as irrelevant for their ideals all criticism leveled at the socialistic ideal. They could do so as long as they ignored the fact that limited interven- tions in the private property order fail to achieve their objec- tives, and that the desired etatist objectives can be achieved only when private property exists in name only and a central authority regulates all production. Moeller obser