ti-Marxism. It is also erroneous to view Marx- ian socialism as the successor to the liberal democracy of the first half of the nineteenth century. The connection between the socialism of Marx and Lassalle and the early democratic program was rather superficial, and was discarded as serv- ing no further purpose as soon as the Marxian parties came to power. Socialism is no improvement over liberalism; it is its enemy. It is illogical to deduce a similarity of the two from an opposition to both. Marxism does not spring from Western thought. As men- tioned above, it failed to find followers in Western countries because it could not overcome the utilitarian sociology. The greatest difference between German ideas and those of the West is the great influence of Marxian thought in Germany. And German thought will not be able to overcome Marxism until it sheds its hostility toward British, French, and Amer- ican sociology. To be sure, it cannot just adopt the sociology of the West, but it must continue and build anew on its foundation. 3. Sombart as Marxist and Anti-Marxist Werner Sombart himself proudly confessed that he gave a good part of his life to fight for Marx.23 It was Sombart, not the wretched pedants of the ilk of Kautsky and Bernstein, who introduced Marx to German science and familiarized German thought with Marxist doctrines. Even the structure 23. See W. Sombart, Das Lebenswerk von Karl Marx [The life's work of Karl Marx], Jena, 1909, p. 3. 127  of Sombart's main work, Modern Capitalism, is Marxian. The problem Marx raised in Das Kapital and other writings is to be solved again, this time with the means of advanced knowledge. And as with Marx, theoretical analysis is to be combined with historical presentation. The starting point of his work is completely Marxian, but its findings are pur- ported to go beyond Marx. Thus, he differs from the publi- cations of party Marxists whose findings are rigidly circum- scribed by party doctrine. Sombart built his reputat