his powers of natural reason and freedom, in the victory of justice and truth. Without freedom there is no truth. Without truth there can be no triumph of justice, no progress, thus no develop- ment, later stages of which are always more desirable than the preceding stages. What sunlight and oxygen mean to organic life, reason and freedom mean to in- tellectual development. Neither individuals, classes, nations, nor races must be viewed as mere means for the purposes of other individuals, classes, nations or races. 18 This is all very fine and noble, but unfortunately so general and vague that it equally applies to socialism, syndicalism, and anarchism. His definition of liberalism lacks the deci- sive ingredient, namely, a social order that is built on pri- vate property in the means of production. It cannot surprise us that with such ignorance about liberalism Herkner also subscribes to practically all miscon- ceptions that are in vogue today. Among others: "In contrast to the older liberalism which aimed mainly at the elimina- tion of hampering restrictions, modern liberalism [that is, social liberalism] has a positive, constructive program."19 If Herkner had discovered private property in the means of production as the basic ingredient of liberalism, he would have known that the liberal program is no less positive and constructive than any other. It is the mentality of officialdom-which, according to Brentano, was "the only sounding-board of the Association for Social Policy" 20_ that considers as constructive and positive only that ideol- 18. Ibid., p. 39. 19. Ibid., p. 47. 20. Brentano, op. cit., p. 19. 82 ogy which calls for the greatest number of offices and offi- cials. And he who seeks to reduce the number of state agents is decried as a "negative thinker" or an "enemy of the state." Both Herkner and Wiese21 expressly emphasize that liber- alism has nothing to do with capitalism. Passow tried to show that the ambiguous terms "capitalism," "capitalistic eco