and in the future, emanates from human nature. It follows that the division of labor is a good means in view of its good results, even if from different points of view it should be viewed as evil, weak, or defi- cient. To Adam Smith, even the weakness of man was not "without its utility." And he concludes: "Every part of na- ture, when attentively surveyed, equally demonstrates the providential care of its Author; and we may admire the wis- dom and goodness of God even in the weakness and folly of men."9 Obviously, the theistic tone is only an appen- dage, which could readily be replaced by the term "nature," as Smith does in other passages of his book where he speaks of "the great Director of Nature" or just of "nature." The so- cial doctrines of Smith and Kant do not differ in basic atti- tudes and views. Kant, too, tries to explain how "nature" guides man to the goal it has set for him. The only difference between Smith and Kant consists of the fact that Smith has succeeded in reducing the formation of society to factors whose presence in man can be proven empirically, while 9. A. Smith, The Theory of Moral Sentiments, Edinburgh, 1813, pt. II, sec. III, ch. III, p. 243. [American edition: The Theory of Moral Sentiments (Indianapolis: Liberty Classics, 1976), p. 195.] 113  Kant can explain society only through an assumption of man's "inclination" to associate and a second inclination to disassociate, from the antagonism of which society emerges. How it does so is not elaborated. 10 Every teleological view can be dressed in a theistic garb without any change in its scientific character. For instance, Darwin's doctrine of natural selection can easily be pre- sented in such a way that the struggle for survival becomes a wise arrangement by the Creator for the development of species. And every teleological view reveals harmonies to us, that is, how that which stands at the end of the develop- ment process emerges from the acting forces. The fact that the conditions co