ve price. Under certain conditions price con- trols may deprive a monopolist of specific monopolistic gains. Let us assume, for instance, that in an isolated econ- omy a sugar cartel is holding sugar prices above those the unhampered market would set. Government could then im- pose a minimum price for sugar beets that is higher than the unhampered market price. But the effects of price controls could not develop as long as the intervention merely ab- sorbs the specific monopoly gain of the sugar monopolist. Only when the beet price is set so high that sugar produc- tion becomes unprofitable even at the monopolistic price, forcing the sugar monopoly to raise prices and curtail pro- duction in line with shrinking demand, will the price con- trol effects take place. 3. The Significance of the Theory of Price Control for the Theory of Social Organization The most important theoretical knowledge gained from a basic analysis of the effects of price controls is this: the effect of intervention is the very opposite of what it was meant to achieve. If government is to avoid the undesirable conse- quences it cannot stop with just market interference. Step by step it must continue until it finally seizes control over production from the entrepreneurs and capitalists. It is un- important, then, how it regulates the distribution of income, whether or not it grants a preferred income position to en- trepreneurs and capitalists. It is important, however, that government cannot be satisfied with a single intervention, but is driven on to nationalize the means of production. This ultimate effect refutes the notion that there is a middle form of organization, the "regulated" economy, between the private property order and the public property order. In the former only the play of market forces can determine prices. If government prevents this play in any way, pro- duction loses its meaning and becomes chaotic. Finally, government must assume control in order to avoid the chaos it crea