seq. The apology for interventionism and the refutation of the critique of interventions by economic theory are taken much too lightly with the assertion, e.g., by Lampe, that this cri- tique is justified only when it is shown simultaneously that the existing economic order corresponds to the ideal of free competition. Only under this condition must every government intervention be tantamount to a reduction in economic productivity. But no seri- ous social scientist would venture today to speak of such a pre-established economic harmony, as the classical economists and their optimistic-liberal epi- gones envisage it. There are tendencies in the market mechanism that bring about an adjustment of dis- rupted economic relations. But these forces prevail only "in the long run," while the readjustment pro- cess is interrupted by more or less sharp frictions. This gives rise to situations in which intervention by "social power" not only can be necessary politically, but also suitable economically . . . provided expert advice on the basis of strictly scientific analysis is available to the public power and that it is followed.2 It is most remarkable that this thesis was not written during the 1870s or 1880s when the Socialists of the Chair untiringly offered to the high authorities their infallible remedies for the social problem and their promises for the dawn of glori- ous times. But it was written in 1927. Lampe still does not see that the scientific critique of interventionism has nothing to do with an "ideal of free competition" and "pre- established harmony."3 He who scientifically analyzes in- terventionism does not maintain that the unhampered econ- omy is in any sense ideal, good, or free from frictions. He does not contend that every intervention is tantamount to a 'reduction in economic productivity." His critique merely 2. Lampe, Notstandarbeiten oder Lohnabbau? [Public works or wage reductions?], Jena, 1927, p. 104 et seq. 3. On "pre-established harmony" see f