istorical School and its many followers abroad never thought it necessary to cope with the problems of catallactics. They were completely satisfied with the argu- ments which Gustav Schmoller presented in the famous Me- thodenstreit and his disciples, e.g., Hasbach, repeated after him. In the decades between the Prussian constitutional conflict (1862) and the Weimar constitution (1919), only three men sensed the problems of social reform: Philippo- vich, Stolzmann, and Max Weber. Among these three, only Philippovich had any knowledge of the nature and content of theoretical economics. In his system, catallactics and in- terventionism stand side by side, but no bridge leads from the former to the latter, and there is no attempted solution to the great problem. Stolzmann basically seeks to realize what Schmoller and Brentano had merely suggested. It is a sad commentary, however, that the School's only represen- tative who really attacked the problem was utterly ignorant of what his opposition was saying. And Max Weber, preoc- cupied with quite different matters, stopped half way, be- cause theoretical economics was alien to him. Perhaps he would have gone further had he not been cut off by early death. For several decades there has been talk at German univer- sities of a reawakening of an interest in theoretical eco- nomics. We may mention a number of authors such as Lief- mann, Oppenheimer, Gottl, et cetera, who ardently denounce the system of modern subjective economics, of which they know only the "Austrians." We need not here raise the question of whether or not such attacks are justi- fied. But we would like to point out the interesting effect such attacks have had on the discussion of the feasibility of the system of interventionism. Each one of these writers summarily rejects what has been created by theoretical economics-by the Physiocrats, classical writers, and mod- ern authors. In particular, they depict the work of modern economics, especially of the Austr