hich the goal was to be reached. There are questions on which all branches could agree. In other questions great differences separated the camps, as, for instance, factory labor by married women, or protection of handcrafts from the competition of big busi- ness. But they all agreed on the rejection of the social ideal of liberalism. No matter how they differed from each other, they joined ranks in the fight against "Manchesterism." In this point, at least, the champion Socialists of the Chair saw eye to eye with the champions of social liberalism. For the movement toward a gradual replacement of capi- talism by a socialistic or syndicalistic social order, the term "social policy" slowly gained acceptance. A precise defini- tion of the term was never offered, as sharp conceptual defi- nitions were never the concern of the Historical School. The use of the term "social policy" remained ambiguous. Only in recent years when pressed by economic critique did the social politicians attempt to define the term. 49. Sidney Webb, Die historische Entwicklung [Historical development], edited by Grunwald, Leipzig, 1897, p. 44. 98 Sombart probably recognized the nature of social policy most clearly. "By social policy," he wrote in 1897, "we un- derstand those measures of economic policy that effect the preservation, promotion, or repression of certain economic systems." 50 Amonn rightly found many faults with this def- inition, but especially pointed out that measures should be characterized by their objectives, not by their effects within the framework of policy, and that social policy goes beyond the realm that usually is called "economic policy."51 But it is decisive that Sombart saw a change in the economic order as the objective of social policy. Let us bear in mind that when he wrote this, Sombart was standing firmly on Marx- ian ground, which made him think of the introduction of so- cialism as the only conceivable social policy. We must admit that he correctly perceived t