ter- vene. Only then can we completely understand interven- tionism. 25. See Strigl, Angewandte Lohntheorie. Untersuchungen über die wirtschaftlichen Grundlagen der Socialpolitik [Applied wage theory. Inquiries into the economic foundations of social policy], Leipzig and Vienna, 1926. 26. Ibid., especially p. 71 et seq. 27. Ibid., p. 106. 28. Ibid., p. 63 et seq., p. 116 et seq. 52 53  Of all the interventionist measures none is probably under stronger attack in Germany and Austria than the eight-hour workday. Many believe that the economic emer- gency can be met only be repealing the eight-hour law: more work and more intensive work are needed. It is taken for granted that the lengthening of labor time and the im- provement in labor efficiency would not be accompanied by higher wages, or at least that the increases would trail the rising labor efficiency, so that labor would become less expensive. Simultaneously, a reduction in all kinds of "social costs" is demanded, such as the elimination of the "welfare tax" pay- able by the businessman in Austria. It is tacitly assumed that he would retain the savings from such cost reductions, and that his labor costs would thus be reduced indirectly. Efforts to reduce wages directly are insignificant at the pres- ent time. partial analysis of the state of affairs may show that in- terventionism continues to advance. This can hardly be denied for Great Britain and the United States. But surely it is as futile today as it was in the past to defend intervention- ism as meaningful and purposeful from the point of view of economic theory. In fact, it is neither meaningful nor pur- poseful from any point of view. There is no road from eco- nomics to interventionism. All interventionistic successes in practical politics were "victories over economics." In social journals and economic literature, the discussion of the problems of the eight-hour day, and the intensity of labor reveals a slow but steady progress in economic under- sta