es. It is not mere scientific research, but the presentation of material permeated with the spirit and per- sonality of the man and thinker, Sombart. This is what gives the book its character and significance. In the end it con- vinces only those readers who already share Sombart's view. Sombart does not attempt a critique of the means by which socialism proposes to attain its ends. And yet, any 40. Ibid. 41. I cannot here go into the details of a critique of the class doctrine; I must refer the reader to my Gemeinwirtschaft, Jena, 1922, p. 265-352. [English-language edi- tion: Socialism (London: Jonathan Cape, 1936), p. 281-358.] 134 135  scientific analysis of socialism must first examine the thesis of the higher productivity of socialistic production, and then question whether or not a socialistic mode of produc- tion is possible at all. Nor does Sombart's criticism more than touch upon the problem of the inevitability of so- cialism. Sombart's book is a special literary phenomenon. It fre- quently happens that in a scholar's lifetime he changes his opinion and in a new book advocates what he opposed ear- lier. But it was always a new book that revealed the intellec- tual change, as, for instance, Plato's Laws which followed his Republic. It is very rare, however, that an author re- veals his lifelong struggle with one problem in ever new re- visions of the same work, as does Sombart. Therefore, we must not conclude that the present edition contains the last version of his statement on socialism. Many years of labor lie ahead, new editions of Socialism will be needed not only because previous editions are out of print, but because Sombart has not yet completed his work on the problems of socialism. The book in its present form merely represents a stage in Sombart's struggle with Marxism. He has not yet freed himself as much as he thinks he has. A great deal of intellectual work remains to be done. Sombart's inner struggle with the problems of Marxism is symptomat