ts reveal an opinion that is shared by a large majority of our contem- poraries, yes, that is even accepted without contradiction. If we should share this Deumer-Travers-Borgstroem-mutualist position we must welcome a nationalization of credit and every other measure leading to socialism. In fact, we must agree to its realizability and even its urgent necessity. The public welcomes all proposals designed to limit the sphere of private property and entrepreneurship because it readily accepts the critique of the private property order by the Socialists of the Chair in Germany, the Solidarists in France, the Fabians in Great Britain, and the Institutional- ists in the United States. If the nationalization proposals have not yet been fully realized we must not search for any opposition in social literature and the political parties. We must look to the fact that the public realizes that whenever enterprises are nationalized and municipalized or govern- ment otherwise interferes with economic life, financial fail- ure and serious disruption of production and transportation follow instead of the desired consequences. Ideology has not yet taken stock of this failure of reality. It continues to hold fast to the desirability of public enterprises and the inferiority of private enterprises. And it continues to find only malice, selfishness, and ignorance in opposition to its 2. Ibid., p. 335. 154 proposals, of which every objective observer should ap- prove. Under such conditions an analysis of Deumer's reasoning seems to be in order. 1. Private Interest and Public Interest According to Deumer, banks presently serve private interests. They serve public interests only inasmuch as these do not conflict with the former. Banks do not finance those enterprises that are most essential from the national point of view, but only those that promise to yield the highest re- turn. For instance, they finance "a whiskey distillery or any other enterprise that is superfluous for the economy