o transfer the postulate of "equal conditions" from the rules of sport or from the arrangement of scientific and technological experiments to economic policy. In so- ciety, not only in the capitalist order, but in every conceiv- able social order, there is competition among individuals. The sociologists and economists of the eighteenth and nine- teenth centuries demonstrated how competition works in the social order that rests on private property in the means of production. This was an essential part of their critique of the interventionistic policies of the mercantilistic police and welfare state. Their investigations revealed how illogical and unsuitable interventionistic measures were. Pressing further they also learned that the economic order that corre- sponds best to man's economic goals is that built on private property. Surely the mercantilists wondered how the people would be provided for if government left them alone. The classical liberals answered that the competition of business- men will supply the markets with the economic goods needed by consumers. In general they couched their de- mand for elimination of intervention in these words: the freedom of competition must not be limited. With the slo- gan of "free competition" they demanded that the social function of private property not be hampered by govern- ment intervention. Thus the misunderstanding could arise that the essence of liberal programs was not private prop- erty, but "free competition." Social critics began to chase a nebulous phantom, "genuinely free competition," which was nothing more than a creature of an insufficient study of the problem and occupation with catchwords. 1 1. See the critique of such errors, Halm, Die Konkurrenz [Competition], Munich and Leipzig, 1929, especially p. 131 et seq. The apology for interventionism and the refutation of the critique of interventions by economic theory are taken much too lightly with the assertion, e.g., by Lampe, that this cri- tique is justi