neurs is scorned as a hireling of injurious special inter- ests or, at best, is treated with silent contempt. Even in a discussion of the methods of interventionism, he who does not want to jeopardize his reputation and, above all, his ca- reer must be very careful. One can easily fall under the sus- picion of serving "capital." Anyone using economic argu- ments cannot escape this suspicion. To be sure, public opinion is not mistaken if it scents cor- ruption everywhere in the interventionist state. The corrup- tibility of the politicians, representatives, and officials is the very foundation that carries the system. Without it the sys- tem would disintegrate or be replaced with socialism or cap- italism. Classical liberalism regarded those laws best that afforded least discretionary power to executive authorities, 31  thus avoiding arbitrariness and abuse. The modern state seeks to expand its discretionary power-everything is to be left to the discretion of officials. We cannot here set forth the impact of corruption on pub- lic morals. Naturally, neither the bribers nor the bribed real- ize that their behavior tends to preserve the system which public opinion and they themselves believe to be the right one. In violating the law they are conscious of impairing the public weal. But by constantly violating criminal laws and moral decrees they finally lose the ability to distinguish be- tween right and wrong, good and bad. If finally few eco- nomic goods can be produced or sold without violating some regulation, it becomes an unfortunate accompaniment of "life" to sin against law and morality. And those individ- uals who wish it were different are derided as "theorists." The merchant who began by violating foreign exchange con- trols, import and export restrictions, price ceilings, et cetera, easily proceeds to defraud his partner. The decay of busi- ness morals, which is called "inflation effect," is the inevi- table concomitant of the regulations that were imposed o