s. The purpose of the theorists of free trade was not to demonstrate that tariffs are impractical or harm- ful, but that they have unforeseen consequences and do not, nor can they, achieve what their advocates expect of them. What is even more significant, as they observed, protective tariffs as well as all other production restrictions reduce the productivity of human labor. The result is always the same: a given expenditure of capital and labor yields less with the restriction than without it, or from the beginning less capi- tal and labor is invested in production. This is true with protective tariffs that cause grain to be grown in less fertile soil while more fertile land is lying fallow, with class restric- tions of trade and occupation (such as the certificates of qualification for certain occupations in Austria, or the fa- vored tax treatment of small enterprises) which promote less productive businesses at the expense of more productive ac- 21  tivity, and, finally, with the limitation of labor time and of the employment of certain labor (women and children), which diminishes the quantity of available labor. It may very well be that government would have inter- vened even with full knowledge of the consequences. It may intervene in the belief that it will achieve other, not purely economic, objectives, which are thought to be more impor- tant than the expected reduction in output. But we doubt very much that this would ever be the case. The fact is that all production restrictions are supported wholly or partially by arguments that are to prove that they raise productivity, not lower it. Even the legislation that reduces the labor of women and children was enacted because it was believed that only entrepreneurs and capitalists would be handi- capped while the protected labor groups would have to work less. The writings of the "Socialists of the Chair" have been rightly criticized in that, in the final analysis, there can be no objective concept of productiv