re very high relative to proportional costs, disregarding even the costs of interest and amortization). There is only one way out of the difficulty: to shut down entirely; only then can further losses be avoided. Of course the situation may not always be so simple. There is hope, perhaps, that the prod- uct price will rise again. In the meantime, production is con- tinued because the disadvantages of the shutdown are thought to be greater than the operating losses during the bad time. Until recently most unprofitable railroads were in this situation because automobiles and airplanes entered the competition. They counted upon an increase in traffic, hoping to earn profits some day. But if such special condi- tions do not exist, production is shut down. Enterprises la- boring under less favorable conditions disappear, which establishes the equilibrium between production and de- mand. Schmalenbach's error lies in his belief that the cutback in production, necessitated by the decline in prices, must take place through a proportionate cutback of all existing opera- tions. He forgets that there is yet another way, namely, the complete shutdown of all plants working under unfavorable conditions because they can no longer stand the competi- tion of plants producing at lower costs. This is true espe- cially in industries producing raw materials and staples. In finishing industries, where individual plants usually manu- facture various items for which production and market con- ditions may vary, a cutback may be ordered, limiting output to the more profitable items. This is the situation in a free economy unhampered by government intervention. Therefore, it is utterly erroneous to maintain that a rise in fixed costs denies our economy the ability to adjust production to demand. It is true that if government interferes with this adjust- ment process through the imposition of protective tariffs of appropriate size a new possibility arises for producers: they can form a cartel i