ad, it was used by the Historical-Realistic-Social School as protection from the critique of theoretical economics. Again and again, perhaps intentionally, some writers re- fuse to recognize the difference between the analysis of economic problems and the formulation of political postu- lates. We make no value judgments when, for instance, we investigate the consequences of price controls and conclude that a price ceiling set below that of the unhampered market reduces the quantity offered, other conditions being equal. We make no value judgments when we then conclude that price controls do not achieve what the authorities hoped to achieve, and that they are illogical instruments of policy. A physiologist does not indulge in value judgments when he observes that the consumption of hydrocyanic acid destroys human life and, therefore, is illogical as a "nutritional sys- tem." Physiology does not answer the question of whether or not a man wants to nourish or kill, or should do so; it merely determines what builds and what destroys, what the nourisher should do and the killer should do in order to act according to his intentions. When I say that price controls are illogical, I mean to assert that they do not achieve the objective they are usually meant to achieve. Now, a Com- munist could reply: "I favor price controls just because they prevent the smooth functioning of the market mechanism, because they turn human society into a 'senseless chaos' and all the sooner lead to my ideal of communism." Then, the theory of price controls cannot answer him, as physiology cannot answer the man who wants to kill with hydrocyanic acid. We do not resort to value judgments when we dem- onstrate, in similar fashion, the illogicality of syndicalism and the unrealizability of socialism. We destroy economics if all its investigations are rejected as inadmissible. We can observe today how many young minds, who under other circumstances would have turned to economic problems, spend them