exist, because forces are at work that, in the long run, prevent the loss of money. This is why the quan- tity theory was always so objectionable to etatists. They fa- vored the Banking School. The victory of the Historical School practically brought excommunication of the Cur- rency School. Karl Marx,41 Adolf Wagner, Helfferich, Hil- ferding, Havenstein, and Bendixen held to the doctrines of the Banking School. After two generations of eclecticism and avoidance of clear concepts, many contemporary writers have difficulty recognizing the differences between those two famous Brit- ish schools. Thus Palyi shows surprise that "a resolute fol- lower of the Banking Principle, M. Ausiaux, occasionally . . . advocates the comptabilism of Solvay." 42 Let us not overlook the fact that "comptabilism" and all other related systems are logical applications of the Banking Principle. If the banks are in no position to issue more notes than are 41. Marx did not recognize that by adopting the Banking Principle he acknowl- edged the foundation on which Proudhon's exchange-bank ideas were based Marx had no clear conception of banking; in many cases he uncritically followed the Banking Theorists. How little he understood of the problems is visible in each of the few remarks he added to the excerpts, as, for instance, on the Catholic char- acter of the monetary system and the Protestant character of the credit system (Das Kapital, vol. III, pt. II, 3rd ed., Hamburg, 1911, p. 132). Even more characteristic is another remark that connects with the basic principle of the Banking Principle that "the emission of a certain quantity of one-pound notes replaces an equal quantity of sovereigns." According to Marx, "a sleight of hand well known to all banks!" (Ibid., vol. I, 7th ed., Hamburg, 1914, p. 84.) What is the purpose of this "sleight of hand"? Banks were not interested in attracting so g sovereigns through the issue of notes. They were interested only in granting more credits through th