nt to control because their products are believed to be especially important. The controls must encompass all branches of production, the prices of all goods and all wages, and the economic actions of all entrepreneurs, capi- talists, landowners, and workers. If any industry should re- main free, capital and labor will move to it and thus frustrate the purpose of government's earlier intervention. Surely, government would like an ample supply of those products it deemed so important and therefore sought to regulate. It never intended that they should now be neglected on ac- count of the intervention.5 Our analysis thus reveals that in a private property order isolated intervention fails to achieve what its sponsors hoped to achieve. From their point of view, intervention is not only useless, but wholly unsuitable because it aggra- vates the "evil" it meant to alleviate. Before the price was regulated, the economic good was too expensive in the opinion of the authority; now it disappears from the market. But this was not the intention of the authority seeking to lower the price for consumers. On the contrary, from its own point of view, the scarcity and inability to find a supply must appear as the far greater evil. In this sense it may be said that limited intervention is illogical and unsuitable, that the economic system that works through such interven- tions is unworkable and unsuitable, and that it contradicts economic logic. 5. On the effectiveness of price controls versus monopolistic prices see my "Theo- rie der Preistaxen" [Theory of price controls] in Handwörterbuch der Staatswissen- schaften [Handbook of social sciences], 4th ed., vol. VI, p. 1061 et seq. The essay appears below in this collection. To understand price controls as they are directed at monopolistic prices, we must not be influenced by popular terminology that detects "monopolies" everywhere, but work rather with the strictly economic concepts of monopoly. 25  If government is not inclined to