nc- tion between production and price intervention. It is clear that an economic consideration of the system of interven- tionism cannot proceed any differently. In his analysis of "control of matters incidental to the con- tract" J. M. Clark does not arrive at any conclusion other than ours in an analysis of production intervention. He too must conclude that "such regulations impose some burdens on industry." 12 This is all that interests us in his discussion. His examination of the political pros and cons of such inter- vention is irrelevant for our problem. In his discussion of control of the "heart of the contract," which roughly corresponds to price intervention, Clark first mentions the American control of interest rates. It is circum- vented, he asserts, through additional incidental charges that raise the nominal rate to the borrower. An illegal com- merce has developed in small loans to consumers. Inasmuch as decent people do not engage in such transactions, they 10. J. M. Clark, Social Control of Business, (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1926). 11. Ibid., p. 450. To avoid any misunderstanding I would like to emphasize that this distinction has nothing to do with the public-law distinction between essen- tialia, naturalia, and accidentalia negotii (the indispensably necessary, natural re- sources, and contract matters). 12. Ibid., p. 451. are the sphere for unscrupulous operators. As such transac- tions must shun the light of publicity, exorbitant interest rates are demanded and granted, which exceed by far the rates that would prevail if no rates were fixed. "Charges equivalent to several hundred per cent per year are the com- mon thing. The law multiplies the evil of extortion ten- fold." 13 Nevertheless, Professor Clark does not believe that rate fixing is illogical. In general, the loan market even for this category of consumer loans is to be left free, with a law to prohibit an interest rate higher than the market rate. "The law . . . may render