rxian socialists have not judged in- terventionism any differently from the classical liberals. 2. Othmar Spann, Der wahre Staat [The true state], Leipzig, 1921, p. 249. They sought to demonstrate the absurdity of all interven- tionist proposals and labeled them contemptuously as "bourgeois." The ideology that is swaying the world today is recommending the very system of economic policy that is rejected equally by classical liberalism and older Marxism. 2. The Nature of Intervention The problem of interventionism must not be confused with that of socialism. We are not dealing here with the question of whether or not socialism in any form is conceiv- able or realizable. We are not here seeking an answer to the question of whether human society can be built on public property in the means of production. The problem at hand is, What are the consequences of government and other in- terventions in the private property order? Can they achieve the result they are supposed to achieve? A precise definition of the concept "intervention" is now in order. 1. Measures that are taken for the purpose of preserving and securing the private property order are not interventions in this sense. This is so self-evident that it should need no special emphasis. And yet it is not completely redundant, as our problem is often confused with the problem of anarchism. It is argued that if the state must protect the private property order, it follows that further government interventions should also be permissible. The anarchist who rejects any kind of state activity is said to be consistent. But he who correctly perceives the impracticability of anarchism 16 17  and seeks a state organization with its apparatus of coercion in order to secure social cooperation is said to be inconsis- tent when he limits government to a narrow function. Obviously, this reasoning completely misses the point. We are not here discussing the question of whether or not social cooperation can do without the organizat