ists raise against theory. Unfortunately, we must also agree with Löwe where he observes that "the heresy of 'impartial' data research, which deprived a whole generation of German scholars of its results," has recently also intruded itself into American research.32 But it is even more regrettable that despite the thorough methodological debates in recent years, we again and again encounter the old, long-refuted errors in German science. Bonn, for instance, praises Bren- tano because in his book on Agricultural Policy he was not con- tent with "describing the skeleton of a system, separated from the flesh of life. He abhored bloodless abstractions, de- ductions of barren concepts, as he encountered them in his youth. He sought the fullness of life." 33 I must admit that I find the term "flesh of life" empty. Bonn's use of the adjective "bloodless" in connection with the noun "abstraction" appears illogical to me. What is the contrast to "bloodless" abstraction-perhaps "bloody" ab- straction? No science can avoid abstract concepts, and he who abhors them should stay away from science and see whether and how he can go through life without them. 31. Bagehot, "The Postulates of English Political Economy," in Works, edited by Russell Barrington, London, 1915, vol. VII, p. 100-104. 32. Löwe, "Der gegenwärtige Stand der Konjunkturforschung in Deutschland" [The present state of business cycle research in Germany], vol. II, p. 365 et seq. 33. Bonn, "Geleitwort: Lujo Brentano als Wirtschaftspolitiker" [Preface: Lujo Brentano as economic politician], vol. I, p. 4. 89  When we look at Brentano's Agricultural Policy we find a number of discussions of rent, land price, cost, et cetera, purely theoretical investigations that obviously work with abstractions and abstract concepts.34 Every investigation that in any way touches upon economic questions must "theorize." True, the empiricist does not know that he is theorizing, as Monsieur Jourdain never knew that he was al- ways speakin