from the national point of view, but only those that promise to yield the highest re- turn. For instance, they finance "a whiskey distillery or any other enterprise that is superfluous for the economy." "From the national point of view, their activity is not only useless, but even harmful." "Banks permit enterprises to grow whose products are not in demand; they stimulate unnecessary consumption, which in turn reduces the peo- ple's purchasing power for goods that are more important culturally and rationally. Furthermore, their loans waste so- cially necessary capital, which causes essential production to decline, or at least their costs of credit, and thus their pro- duction costs, to rise." 3 Obviously, Deumer does not realize that in a market order capital and labor are distributed over the economy in such a way that, except for the risk premium, capital yields the 3. Ibid., p. 86. 155  same return, and similar labor earns the same wage every- where. The production of "unnecessary" goods pays no more and no less than that of "essential goods." In the final analysis, it is the consumers in the market who determine the employment of capital and labor in the various indus- tries. When the demand for an item rises its prices will rise and thus the profits, which causes new enterprises to be built and existing enterprises to be expanded. Consumers decide whether this or that industry will receive more capi- tal. If they demand more beer, more beer will be brewed. If they want more classical plays, the theatres will add clas- sics to their repertoire and offer fewer antics, slapstick, and operettas. The taste of the public, not the producer, decides that The Merry Widow and The Garden of Eden are performed more often than Goethe's Tasso. To be sure, Deumer's taste differs from that of the public. He is convinced that people should spend their money differently. Many would agree with him. But from this difference in taste Deumer draws the conclusion that a so- cialistic