ng an unprecedented crisis. Socialism did not fail because of ideological resistance- the prevailing ideology is socialistic even today. It failed be- cause of its unrealizability. As the general awareness grew that every step taking us away from the private property 100 order always reduced labor's productivity, and so brought want and misery, it became necessary not only to halt the advance to socialism, but even to repeal some of the socialis- tic measures already taken. Even the Soviets had to yield. They did not proceed with the socialization of land, but merely distributed the land to the rural population. In trade and commerce they replaced pure socialism with the "New Economic Policy." However, the ideology did not partici- pate in this retreat. It stubbornly clung to its pronounce- ments of decades ago, and sought to explain the failures of socialism in all possible ways except the right one-its basic unrealizability. Only a few champions of socialism have realized that the failure of socialism was not coincidental, but inevitable. Some went even further and admitted that all social mea- sures reduce productivity, consume capital and wealth, and are destructive. The renunciation of the ideals these men used to embrace is called in economic literature the crisis of social policy.53 In reality, it is much more: it is the great world crisis of destructionism-the policy that seeks to de- stroy the social order based on private property in the means of production. The world can support teeming humanity in the manner in which it has been supported in recent decades only if men work capitalistically. Only capitalism can be expected to further raise the productivity of human labor. The fact that the vast majority of people adheres to an ideology that re- fuses to admit this, and therefore conducts policies that lead to a reduction of labor productivity and consumption of cap- ital, is the essence of the great cultural crisis. 53. See Pribram, "Die Wandlungen des Be