ods that quickly lose value-in order to save the goods for more favorable times when, hopefully, the control will be lifted. If government now endeavors to prevent a good's disappearance from the market, a consequence of its own intervention, it cannot limit itself to setting its price, but must simultaneously order that all available supplies be sold at the regulated price. Even this is inadequate. At the ideal market price supply and demand would coincide. Since government has decreed a lower price the demand has risen while the supply has re- mained unchanged. The available supply now does not suf- fice to satisfy the demand at the fixed price. Part of the de- mand will remain unsatisfied. The market mechanism, which normally brings demand and supply together through changes in price, ceases to function. Customers who were willing to pay the official price turn away in dis- appointment because the early purchasers or those who per- sonally knew the sellers had bought the whole supply. If government wishes to avoid the consequences of its own in- tervention, which after all are contrary to its own intention, it must resort to rationing as a supplement to price controls and selling orders. In this way government determines the quantity that may be sold to each buyer at the regulated price. A much more difficult problem arises when the supplies 24 that were available at the moment of price intervention are used up. Since production is no longer profitable at the reg- ulated price, it is curtailed or even halted. If government would like production to continue, it must force the produc- ers to continue, and it must also control the prices of raw materials, semifinished products, and wages. But such con- trols must not be limited to a few industries which govern- ment meant to control because their products are believed to be especially important. The controls must encompass all branches of production, the prices of all goods and all wages, and the economic actions of