; breaking away from it was like desertion from hope, his own people, indeed, from European civilization. As it became clear to him that the prevailing social ideol- ogy was untenable, and as he saw where it was bound to lead he began to see the future of the German nation and the other nations that carry European civilization. In a way, as 54. Marianne Weber recalls of her husband's time in Freiburg: "He reports in jok- ing exaggeration that he is listening to great economic lectures, given by himself." Marianne Weber, Max Weber, Ein Lebensbild [Max Weber: a biography], Tübingen, 1926, p. 213. 103  the cauchemar des coalitions ("nightmare of coalitions") de- prived Bismarck of his sleep, so the recognition to which his studies led him gave Weber no rest. No matter how he clung to the hope that everything would work out in the end, a dark premonition told him again and again that a catas- trophe was approaching. This awareness gnawed at his health, filled him with growing uneasiness after the out- break of the World War, urged him on to activity that for a man unwanted by any of the political parties had to remain fruitless, and finally hastened his death. From its beginning in Heidelberg, the life of Max Weber was an uninterrupted inner struggle against the doctrines of the Socialism of the Chair. But he did not fight this struggle to the end; he died before he succeeded in completely free- ing himself from the spell of these doctrines. He died lonely, without intellectual heirs who could continue the fight he had to give up in death. To be sure, his name is praised, but the true substance of his work is not recognized, and that which was most important to him has found no disciples. Only opponents have recognized the dangers to their own ideology from the thoughts of Max Weber.55 9. The Failure of the Prevailing Ideology In all variations and colors the ideas of socialism and syn- dicalism have lost their scientific moorings. Their cham- 55. See Wilbrandt, "Kritis