,” Arnold breathed to himself as Mitchell droned on endlessly, “Answer their questions and step down.”  When Arnold himself testified before the board on October 16, he created considerably more excitement and controversy because he had arranged a startling aerial display to accompany his remarks.* Adjutant General Robert C. Davis and Assistant Chief of Staff Fox Conner, two long-time skeptics about air power, had just finished speaking out against any change in the organization of the Air Service or any  Thomas M. Coffey # 122  Finally, when he ran out of breath, Arnold managed to say, “Sir S  “Yes, yes, I know!” Patrick shouted, and stopping short, picked up a paperweight from his desk and threw it at Arnold.*  It is possible that despite such incidents General Patrick liked Arnold better than Arnold liked him. Capt. Ira Eaker, who was an aide to Patrick at the time, got the impression from him that he actually admired Arnold, considered him a “bright, able officer and was com- pletely satisfied with the work he was doing.” If it had been otherwise, Patrick would quickly have sent him elsewhere. But Arnold, who did not share Eaker’s insight into Patrick’s attitudes, was becoming discouraged again and once more considered resigning from the service  This time he had a plan for getting ahead in civilian life. As Air Service information officer, he had been reading reports from the U.S. military attaché in Colombia about a German airline called SCADTA (Sociedad Colombo-Alemana de Transportes Aéreos), which was opera- ting between Bogota and Barranquilla. The line was already flying “far too close to the Panama Canal” when Arnold learned that its manager, a man named Dr. Peter Paul von Bauer, intended to lengthen his route through Panama and Central America to Cuba and the United States Arnold decided, from a military point of view, that this should not be allowed. It was U.S. military doctrine at the time that no foreign power, especially one of our recent enemies, s