and maybe will be able to get her here for a couple of days.” But Bee did not  visit him while he was in Florida.  Arnold was back in Washington in time for the Joint Chiefs of Staff meeting on March 21, which he attended silently. His staff did every- thing possible to help him slacken his pace, and for a few days he appeared to do so. Then without warning he pushed his throttle forward and brought himself back to speed, hurrying up the people around him rather than allowing them to slow him down. On March 24 he wrote an enthusiastic letter to Andrews in England (and another the next day to Harry Hopkins) about the report of his committee of operations analysts, which indicated that German industry might be paralyzed by the destruction of “not more than sixty” strategic targets.  “On the basis of our preliminary studies,” Arnold told Andrews, “the destruction of the ball-bearing industry would apparently have the  most far-reaching effects upon German industry of any of the targets studied.” Thus did he point the fateful way Eaker's B-17s would  eventually take to the German ball-bearing center at Schweinfurt.  It was becoming apparent, however, that despite the old Air Corps theory of the heavily armed, self-defending bomber, Eaker's B-17s might need fighter protection on their forays into Germany Since the late autumn of 1942, Eaker had been pleading for auxiliary gas tanks for the P-47s in his fighter command, but there was resistance, even by his fighter commander, Monk Hunter, and by many of the fighter pilots, to the addition of tanks."* They argued that extra gasoline would make flying torches of the P-47s, as well as making them slower and less  maneuverable, Hunter, worried about his pilots, argued for safety.  Thomas M. Coffey * 306  and control the nation’s air power all over the world, the contention with the Navy and the British, the hectic trips, the enormous responsibilities —in short, the war, and perhaps, too, his growing difficulties with Bee, had