sent down his own physician, Col. Russell V. Lee, who had been a nationally known Palo Alto, California, heart specialist before his wartime enlistment in the Medical Corps. Lee put Arnold on a strict regimen and remained in Coral Gables to make sure nd he and Simmons took short walks and rode the Air Forces crash boat in the bay. He played golf, a few holes at a time. At Lee’s behest, his staff tried to  he stuck to it. As he began to feel better he did some fishing, 2  leave him alone, and he was surprisingly good about leaving them alone. After two wecks he was playing eighteen holes of golf a day with scores in the eighties. “Pretty good for an old man,” he said in a letter to his son Bruce.'* Actually it was amazing, especially in light of his golfing style He never took a full swing. He simply brought the club back halfway,  307 « HAP  then leaned into it. He sacrificed distance for accuracy, and while his technique amused his fellow players, it actually worked for him.  His recovery was remarkably rapid, and as he recovered, he continued to maintain the pretense that he had never been sick, “I was sort of worn out,” he wrote to Lois, “so I came down here for a rest and am having a delightful time,” To Bruce, now a first-classman at West Point, he indicated it was because of his case of “the grippe” that the doctors “shipped me off . . . for 2 weeks’ recuperation.” ‘To Hank he later wrote: “I had a couple of weeks of rest and recreation down in Florida recently and managed to get in quite a lot of golfing and fishing.”  To Lois he also maintained the pretense that all was well between Bee and himself. “I have been trying to get your mother down here and maybe will be able to get her here for a couple of days.” But Bee did not  visit him while he was in Florida.  Arnold was back in Washington in time for the Joint Chiefs of Staff meeting on March 21, which he attended silently. His staff did every- thing possible to help him slacken his pace, and for a few days