, this letter pointed out to Arnold that the B-17’s bomb load “is less than that of the B-24 and our own heavy bombers, and  consequently its diversion to a Coastal Command role involves the least loss of hitting power.”  Harris, in his conversation with Arnold, had mentioned another  criticism of the plane in combat. The machine guns in the B-17C, the latest model the British had received, were not set in power turrets, and the plane had no tail guns. The gunners would hit nothing, Harris warned, unless those guns were set in proper emplacements.”  These British disparagements of the B-17 must have shaken Ar-  nold. The basic American air-war plan depended upon that plane. If it failed, there was only the B-2  to fall back on (at least until the unproven B-29 was developed), but very few people in the Air Forces considered the B-24 as good a plane as the B-17. Perhaps the British were misusing their B-17s, as General Brett had reported, but even so it was difficult to explain the plane’s poor record in combat to date. On twenty-two  missions (mostly two or three planes per mission) Fortresses had aborted  251 * HAP  eighteen times before reaching primary or secondary targets. That was a statistic difficult to answer. The only thing Arnold could do was to report each of the plane’s newfound flaws to Wright Field and to the Boeing Company in the hope that they would be corrected. He was too deeply committed to the plane to abandon it.  He was just as deeply committed to the basic American air doctrine, which the British were seriously questioning. His whole plan for a massive bombing offensive against Germany, envisioned as the main United States contribution to the war in Europe until an invasion of the continent became feasible, was based on the belief, almost universally held in the Air Forces, that with the well-armed B-17 and the newly developed Norden bombsight (which during tests had reportedly placed  a bomb in a barrel from 000 feet), it would be possible fo