g, however ineptly, against Japan, strongly suggested to Arnold that he assign fifty heavy bombers (B-24s) to the China-Burma-India hump route. Arnold indicated both his reluctance and his concurrence in an amusing May 9 memorandum to Col. Hoyt S. Vandenberg of his staff  Note the attached memorandum to the President relative to aerial operations for carrying supplies into China, The proposition for utilizing 50 B-24s for this purpose is one that will require some  study. On the other hand, someone must make a decision as to  whether these bombers will be of more importance in the Jong run utilized in this manner than if they were utlized to bomb Germany  I am of the opinion that we, for the time being should take the affirmative and assume that they could be used to better advantage for carrying supplies into China because the President of the United States has directed me to put this line in, regardless of any difficulties that may be encountered  As if the overseas demands for airplanes were not enough, Arnold was now getting requests from fellow Army generals who hadn't yet gone abroad to send them planes for their personal transportation. He fulfilled some of these requests. On May 7 he sent a C-45 transport plane to Maj. Gen. George S. Patton of the Armored Corps, who was then commanding the Desert Training Center in California. But he was not so generous with some of the ground force generals who had spent the peacetime years resisting Air Corps growth. To one lieutenant general who said to him, “Say, Hap, where is that transport plane that you're supposed to get for me?” he replied, Still on the drafting board, just exactly the same place it was three years ago when I asked you to buy it for us.”*  Among the matters that had been decided at the secret April 1 Bolero meeting in the White House was the question of sending American bombers to the R.A.F. The British had asked for thousands of them, to be incorporated into their own bombardment fleet  Arnold argu