tend he was doing it simply to strengthen American air defenses. He obviously did want to increase American air power, but as subsequent events proved, he wanted first to strengthen France and England in the hope that they could handle Hitler, thus relieving the United States of the necessity ever to do so.  Hap Arnold, new in his job and only recently acquainted with the president, could hardly be expected to perceive immediately the Byzan- tine workings of the Roosevelt mind. Arnold assumed that if Roosevelt said he wanted airplanes for the purpose of expanding the Army Air Corps, then that was why he wanted them. But Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau, a long-time observer of Roosevelt, realized that the truth was more complicated.  Roosevelt, unable to work with Woodring because of his isolationism but also reluctant to fire him for fear of arousing his isolationist friends in Congress, had turned for help to Morgenthau, who fully shared his alarm about Hitler, his new-found enthusiasm for aircraft production,  and his eagerness to help Hitler's enemies. Morgenthau was delighted  20 and told  when Roosevelt called him to the White House on Octobe him he actually wanted to develop production not of 10,000, but of 15,000 planes per year.* He rushed back to the Treasury Building to tell his staff the good news. By this time, Morgenthau’s own Byzantine mind was at work. If the increased American aircraft production was to help England and France in their coming hours of need, then the American Army Air Corps would have to be content to slow the pace of its own expansion. Was Arnold likely to understand that and accept it? Wasn't the whole matter too important to be left in the hands of an untried new major general? Morgenthau decided he himself had better learn some thing about the aircraft industry and the development of an air force.  He made a one of his aides, “Next week I’m going to school with General Arnold.”  friendly call to the Air Corps chief, after whic