e Pacific was the primary theater in which to fight the war. And they were a hard pair to resist  In the midst of the planning for Bolero and the efforts to satisfy the demands for air strength in so many theaters, Arnold held a 10:00 a.m. staff meeting one Sunday in early March to find out why he was receiving  conflicting reports about plane deliveries from factories to Air Forces  units.  One reason, as it turned out, was his own helter-skelter method of gathering information. He was constantly on the phone with manufac- turers or Air Forces people in the field, trying to find out for himself what was happening. It was perhaps a good way of keeping informed about certain things, but it was a poor method of compiling statistics. His hit-and-miss figures seldom agreed with those of his materiel division. And to complicate matters further, the two sets of figures weren't likely to agree even if they were both accurate because there were two ways to calculate aircraft deliveries  Ordinarily a plane was not put on the “accepted” list until it had been delivered in flying condition. But quite often a manufacturer would collect on his parking lot a backlog of planes, complete except for some part, possibly even as important as the engine, which was to be made and supplied by a second company. In many instances, it was not only fair but necessary to consider these planes “accepted” so the  4  i & CHAP Ten 15 >  indi  i  we iyeton shinee ii!  n March 1942, at Marshall's behest, the Arnolds moved from  with  Bethesda to a commodious house, Quarters #8, at Fort Myer, across iit te Potomac in Virginia, near the Pentagon Building, which was then tay" ss nder construction. For wartime security reasons, Marshall wanted the jilhil top Army commanders to live within the protection of a military with? peservation.! He himself lived just down the street from Arnold’s new ‘t  -home. They often went to work together  wi! Shortly after the Arnolds moved to Fort Myer, Lois came to visi