ill undoubtedly gel more promotion in the arm to which he was assigned. . , . If the boy sull pines for the yellow stripe, he might be able to arrange a transfer later on.”!°  Two or three months after this latest rebuff by the Cavalry, Arnold received a cable which at least offered him the possibility of prolonging his absence from the Infantry. Early in 1909, the Signal Corps had ordered Captain Cowan to Washington. When he arrived there he found that his new duty was to recruit two second lieutenants for a new kind of military experience—filying. The corps had been assigned to look into the possibilities of the airplane partly because no other branch of the service wanted to be bothered with it, and partly because the only thing this strange plaything could conceivably do for an army was to deliver messages. Cowan, remembering Arnold's discontent and im- pressed by his hard work and resourcefulness, cabled him to ask if he would be interested, Arnold, by return cable, informed him that he would indeed be interested." Actually, his interest in the matter was almost solely as a means of getting out of the Infantry; he had never even seen an airplane, and didn't much care whether he ever saw one. In any event, no further correspondence was forthcoming from Cowan  In the summer of 1909, the 29th Infantry, having completed the usual two-year tour of duty in the Philippines, was reassigned to  35 * HAP  garrison duty on Governor's Island, just off the tip of Lower Manhattan. And Arnold, despite his efforts to escape the outfit, was sent along with it. He did, however, avoid traveling with it. Because he had been unable to spend much of his $128.32 monthly earnings ($116.66 base pay plus ten percent for foreign service) during his many months on mapping detail in the jungle, he had saved enough money to afford a leisurely trip back to New York the long way around the world, via Hong Kong, Singapore, Suez, Alexandria, Cairo, Genoa, Lucerne, and Paris.’* It was not by acc