gly.”  Yet he himself was beginning to wonder at this time whether the B-29 would ever be able to do the job for which it was designed. “It is highly possible and maybe even probable,” he concluded in the memo to Vandenberg, “that we are expecting too much from these operations.”  Thomas M. Coffey * 340  twenty-three days of February, forty-seven cargo planes had been lost. (Sixteen of them had simply vanished into the mountains.)  “Unless something is done very soon,” he wrote in a memo to Barney Giles, “the morale of the pilots cannot help but be materially affected.”  Since it was not possible to cancel operations over this perilous mountain route, some other solution had to be found. Arnold’s immedi- ate suggestion to Giles was cosmetic but shockingly unsubstantial  a. Double the number of crews but retain the same number of operating missions so that the attrition will be distributed over double the number of people  b. Increase the number of airplanes so that we will ays have a 50 in operation and in that way our  standard number of about losses will not become so noticeable.’  If Arnold had done no more than make this suggestion, his solution to the problem would have deserved a high place in the annals of cynicism. But in fact, he was simply proposing a stopgap measure. To find a more substantial remedy, he immediately sent C. R. Smith to India."'  Smith found the commanding officer of the Hump operation, Brig. Gen. Earl Hoag, in a New Delhi hotel, about a thousand miles from the air route into China, “How are things going over the Hump?” Smith asked  Hoag said they were going pretty well  “When were you over there last?”  He hadn't actually been over the Hump as yet, he said, but he got written reports on it,  When Smith flew the Hump for the first time, he could see why neither Hoag nor anyone else might like the experience. Smith, who had virtually covered the globe during his years as an airline executive, found the Himalayas “the toughest flying place i