ents, By Armistice Day, November 11, 1918, the United States had only 2,768 fully trained pilots and observers on the western front, and most of them were flying British or French planes. Though some American-designed planes reached Europe, very few flew in combat.  Arnold’s administrative involvement in the attempt to create an air force left him with much insight as to what should and should not be done if the country ever again had to build a large air force in a hurry, but it also imposed on him a double frustration. He had long ago learned to hate all desk jobs. He despised this one because it was part of an enterprise that was falling far short of expectations, and because it continued to prevent him from going into combat overseas.  By 1918, many of his friends were in France. Billy Mitchell, after a power struggle with Benny Foulois, had been placed in charge of all Air Service units at the front under Gen. John J. Pershing, while Foulois had been sent to the rear in charge of flying schools and services of supply. (Disgusted at their inability to get along with each other, Pershing had placed a brigadier general from the Corps of Engineers, Mason M. Patrick, above both of them.) Col. Tommy Milling was in command of all First Army air units, and  Sol. Frank Lahm, whom Arnold considered more of an acquaintance than a friend after the San Diego incident, was in command of all Second Army air units. Col. John Paeglow, whom Arnold had known in the Philippines, was in command of all American observation balloons, If these men could get to France, why shouldn't he? Hadn't he served long enough behind a desk?  On May 21, 1918, his hopes fell when he was named assistant director of military aeronautics, a position which made him the number two man in the Air Service’s Washington headquarters. It was a title that gave him added power, but that seemed at the same time to nail him to his Washington chair. And he was desperate to get to France at that time ause “I was c