hington. While they were in Egypt, Roosevelt and Arnold, on November 24, went out to see the Sphinx together. By this time, the president may have been aware of Arnold's feelings in the matter. As they gazed at the huge stone face, he mentioned the problem of command in the upcoming European operations.  Arnold said he thought it was important to establish a unified command with a single commander, And he thought Marshall was the best man for the job, But in spite of that, he would regret seeing him leave Washington because of his “outstanding ability” in the Combined Chiefs of Staff meetings, and because he was such a “superior adviser” to the president.  From Admiral King, the president had received an even more outspoken reaction. “We have the winning combination here in Wash- ington,” King had said. “Why break it up’ might replace Marshall would have his knowledge and balanced judg- ment of the needs of global war.  In his opinion, no one who  To these arguments, Roosevelt finally bowed. On December 4, after the Americans and British had returned from Tehran to Cairo, the president had lunch with Marshall and told him he would not be commanding the invasion forces. Though Marshall had been counting on this command, even to the point of sending some of his furniture from Fort Myer back to his home in Virginia, there is no indication that he complained about his disappointment. He and Roosevelt decided that Eisenhower would be the supreme commander in Europe.  Arnold left Cairo with Rosie O'Donnell the morning of December 8, and after a short stop in Tunis, flew on to Sicily, where he met Eisenhower and Gen, Walter Bedell Smith, Eisenhower's chief deputy. With Ike planning now to return to London and establish his supreme command headquarters there, the question arose as to who would be his air commander, Without hesitation, both he and Smith said it would have to be Tooey Spaatz. They wouldn't take anyone else.'* That was all right with Arnold. He had full confid