ed pilots who could fly all av bombers immediately. If Arnold would send the heay R.A.F., he would be willing, he said, to give them American units were ready for them. It sounded proposal, but Arnold resisted it when he realized his get ready if they had no airplanes  He was also invited to visit the headquarters of t)  command, which was now under the direction of Ai  Thomas M. Coffey 276  Force would have to be diverted to that operation. Though Arnold had  apparently won his point and persuaded the British to concede, the  Thomas M. Coffey  Force would have to be diverted to that operation. Though Arnold had apparently won his point and persuaded the British to concede, the actual results were yet to be seen  While in England, Arnold decided definitely that Chaney would  have to go. But only Marshall had the power to relieve an Army theater commander. Arnold discussed this problem with Eisenhower and Clark, two of Marshall's aides. Then in a separate conversation with Clark, he decided Eisenhower would be the ideal replacement for Chaney  On the morning of June 2, when Arnold left London for home, Chaney rode with him to Northolt Airport. In the front seat with the driver was Capt. Beirne Lay, Jr., of Eaker’s staff, who had acted as Arnold's secretary during his stay in England, As they drove toward the outskirts of London, Chaney said to Arnold, “General, I know how busy you've been, at meetings with the British. 1 haven't had a chance to talk to you about my plans. I welcome this opportunity while we're alone to give you my thinking.”  Arnold, blunt as usual when he had to say something unpleasant, turned to Chaney. “I would suggest you concentrate your immediate plans,” he said, “on a change of station.”!* Glum silence prevailed the rest of the way to the airport  It was 3:30 a.m. British time (12:30 a.m. local time), June 3 before Arnold and his party landed at Goose Bay, after flying against head winds that cut their airspeed to 135 miles per hour. They rod