unity to tell her son pointedly how pleasant it was to go there and have Mr. Pool show her so many courtesies. Unlike her husband, he thoughtfully opened doors for her, helped her into her chair, and even listened to her when she talked. Bee Pool took an immediate liking to Mrs. Arnold. She considered her “a serene, radiant woman, with a broad mind, in a family of narrow minds.” Bee also felt that some of what her mother-in-law-to-be said to Hap seemed to rub off on him, though he remained thoughtless about the little niceties a woman might like  On the day before the wedding, the Pools received a surprise visit from the Arnolds. Dr. Arnold had heard a rumor that Mr. Pool intended to serve liquor at the reception after the ceremony. Was that true?  Yes indeed, said Sidney Pool. He was planning a champagne supper  75 * HAP  But did he not know the Arnolds were teetotalers?  He knew that, to be sure, On the other hand, many of the guests were not, And anyone who didn’t wish to drink could decline to do so, This was a wedding, his daughter's wedding, an occasion to celebrate. “No daughter of mine,” he said, “is going to have a wedding at which there is no liquor.”  She would either have her wedding without liquor, Dr. Arnold insisted, or she would have it without the Arnolds,  To break this impasse, Sidney Pool, the more flexible of the two men, finally relented and promised there would be no champagne at the champagne supper. He did not promise, however, that the entire celebration would be so abstemious.  With the liquor problem presumably settled, there were no more complications until Hap's sister, Betty, announced to the young couple that she intended to go with them to his next station, the Philippines, and keep house for them. Hap was not altogether unprepared for this. During his first tour of duty in the Philippines, Betty had offered to do likewise, but he had been able to put her off that time by telling her he had no house to keep; he was in the jungle on a