by the  Germans because the U.S. Navy couldn't stop the Japanese.  Arnold in his diary did not comment on MacArthur's predictions, most of which must have seemed insupportable even in those difficult days, but he did note that their talk “gives me the impression of a brilliant mind—obsessed by a plan he can’t carry out —dramatic to the extreme—much more nervous than when I formerly knew him. Hands twitch and tremble—shell shocked.”  From Brisbane, Arnold flew to Espiritu Santo, the westernmost island in the New Hebrides, where the Air Forces and the Navy had established a primitive air base for the Solomons campaign. The 11th Bombardment Group, commanded by Col. Laverne G. Saunders, a onetime football star at West Point, was stationed there in the company of mud, mosquitoes, malaria, and a Navy fighter squadron. At this the Air Forces and the Navy were getting along  fighting-men’s level, nicely together despite their shared misery Since they had almost no maintenance men, the B-17 crews were repairing their own planes and sleeping under the wings, but they were flying daily missions against the Japanese on Guadalcanal, and they had only one complaint. Their lifeboats, they said, were built to hold four men, and as there were eight men in each crew, four of them had to ¢ ling to the sides, uncomfortably exposed, when they went down in these shark-infested waters Arnold  promised he would do something about that  Thomas M. Coffey * 288  supply ships. And the only fighters he really wanted were P-38s, of which very few were available. Both Ghormley and McCain repeated Nimitz’s refrain that the B-17s and the Air Forces fighters were being wasted in Europe. (Actually very few bombers or fighters had yet reached Europe.) Mc  tain told him, “Here is where they can be of use. Here is the only place where they can get results. MacArthur may need them, but we need them more than he does.”  Arnold could remember the days, in the not-far-distant past, when neither MacArthur no