, pain, perhaps even anguish to him “If, to our regret, we of the Air Force did not find a rotten apple in  our barrel,” he told the subcommittee, “we are grateful that others have done so. If we were at fault in not finding it, we must admit our fault, .. , We thought we had reason to rely on the integrity as well as ability of men entrusted with high responsibility.”  Less than two months later, in January 1948, Arnold was in bed again with another heart attack, this one so serious it kept him down for three months. It was Dr. Lee who put him to bed (at that time bedrest rather than regulated exercise was considered the best therapy for heart patients), but it was Bee who made him stay there, and while he didn’t always appreciate her insistence, he acknowledged, after he was on his feet again, that it was she who “put me on the road to recovery.”  Bruce Arnold, who often spent weekends and leave time at the  ranch, felt that his parents were “completely compatible and extremely  Id ut le ad  ad re ol. an en nis nd as he nd  wn  id,  m. ed rot so, hat op ta  ich  od-  led felt he int, cen im. the  Thomas M. Coffey # 382  loving to each other” during this period." He never heard his mother raise her voice or show anger toward anyone. He found her as warm-hearted, loving, and protective of her husband as she had always been.  Henry Arnold, Jr., has conceded that there may have been “a certain amount of strain” between his parents, but he also pointed out that, if so, it was understandable. “Mother was working [during the war] as much as 14-16 hours a day at her duties as head of the Air Force Relief Society, frequently to the point of total exhaustion And to complicate matters, so much of my father’s work was classified, even the trips that he took, that he could not discuss any of it with my mother, as he had always done throughout their life previous to the war.” As for  any difficulties there might have been between them during the  re- tirement years, Hank made a