not about to die. The first thing he did, as LeMay recalled, was to ‘give us hell for taking so long to get there.” Saunders survived, after months of surgery, but his combat career was at an end, and his removal to hospital deprived LeMay of an important source of advice about B-29 problems in China and India“  Fortunately, the plane itself was now showing signs of improvement. A new baffling system had cut down the excessive engine heat, and several less critical bugs had been eliminated, especially in the latest models, But LeMay still had some big decisions to make about the  operation and he didn't have much time to make them. Chiang  355 * HAP  of the Air Forces’ overall war plan (AWPD-1), had taken charge, on August 28, of the 2Ist Bomber Command, which was then at its headquarters in Colorado Springs. It consisted of one B-29 wing already trained for night bombing but due to be retrained for day bombing, plus three more wings as yet untrained. The trained wing, the 73rd, was under the command of Arnold's friend and former aide Rosie O'Donnell.  In early October, when the crews of the 21st seemed sufficiently trained, Hansell staged a shakedown “mission” from Salina, Kansas, to Havana, Cuba, in formation. The purpose of this cruise was to find out if the 21st was ready for the more arduous trip from Saipan to Tokyo. Hansell discovered it was not quite ready. The B-29s made forced land- ings “all over the gulf states.”  Hansell and O'Donnell knew Arnold too well to use that as an excuse for delay. On October 12, the vanguard of O'Donnell’s 73rd Wing took off for Saipan. On landing they found a morass of disorgani- zation. The fields were still under construction, and at the other end of the island, the Marines were still fighting the Japanese. But within a week, Saipan was home to Hansell’s 21st Bomber Command. Despite bad weather, the confusion and fighting around them, the inexperience of the crews, and some last-minute doubts about feasibility, O'Donnell, f