had enough trouble winning  they were to get no U. British approval for Bolero without spreading suc h bad news. In fact, they weren't yet certain the British had actually approved inyasion of the conunent  Churchill had tentatively agreed it might be practical, but not until the spring or summer of 1943, and he had suggested that a North African landing should precede it. To clarify some of these matters, Marshall sent Major General Eisenhower along with Arnold, Also on the trip were Maj. Gen. Mark Clark of the Army, Rear Adm. Jack Towers, Arnold's naval counterpart, Col. Hoyt Vandenberg, Col. Gene Beebe, and several British officers stationed in Washington  Their “stratoliner” left Bolling Field at 7:15 a.m. the morning of May § out into ice and fog over the Atlantic. After 540 miles of blind,  3 for Montreal and Goose Bay, Newfoundland, before heading  treacherous flying, they had to return to Gander and try again the next day,” On the second attempt they made it to Prestwick, Scotland, the morning of the twenty-fifth, though the weather was still bad. Since it was impossible to fly to London, they boarded a train that evening and arrived there early in the morning of the twenty-sixth. Portal did not meet them for a reason he explained charmingly in a note Arnold received later that day: “Going to the station at 6 a.m. would mean that I should fall sound asleep at 3 p.m. just when I should be listening to what you were saying,”  After checking in at Claridge’s, Arnold had breakfast with U.S. sador John G. Winant and U.S, Army Commander in England,  Am! Maj. Gen, James E. Chaney of the Air Forces. Chaney was the man who won the brigadier general's star Arnold thought he should have received in 1934. Since Arnold, with three stars, had now surpassed him, that incident was long forgotten. The two men had always been cordial to each other, but Arnold was poorly disposed toward Chaney at the moment because he wasn’t cooperating fully with Ira Eaker in the formation of