taff ?”  “By edict,” Anderson answered. “By some new terms the president made up.”  “He's not a chief of staff,” Cooke insisted. “He is definitely—and you might as well face up to the fact—he is subordinate to the War Department.”**  Admiral King, at Joint Chiefs meetings, would often indicate, not in words but by his behavior, that he shared Cooke's point of view. When Arnold addressed himself to King, the admiral was not above aiming his reply to Marshall, as if it were Marshall who had spoken, or as if it should be assumed that Marshall had put the words in Arnold’s mouth There was a tradition in military councils that equals addressed equals, but King, when he refused to address a full member of this body as an equal, was going far beyond tradition. He was telling an upstart he didn’t belong where he was. King was a battleship admiral who had only lately come to acknowledge the importance of air Though he had earned his wings at the age of forty-nine, he was hardly an aviator. Sometimes he seemed to blame Arnold personally for the fact that airplanes were now threatening to make his battleships obsolete  Cooke was quite literally correct in his remarks to Anderson. Arnold was not a chief of staff. But neither was Leahy, although he was now called the president's chief of staff, whatever that might mean. And Arnold was unquestionably subordinate to the War Department. But so  |  fatylo Avni inst supe!  ili ait yun! aikido ihilobt ww iinet Abimllet inl  ian iq igri  pot  263 HAP  the December 7 attacks. And commanders on the Pacific Coast were frantically asking for help against the possibility that the Japanese might soon arrive unannounced in Seattle, San Francisco, or Los Angeles.  It was this panic which gave strength to the Navy arguments that Europe could wait. The Japanese had to be handled immediately, Arnold didn’t agree. He had said during the Arcadia conference with the British, “The way to win the war is to hit Germany where it hurts the most, where sh