away, but he had learned he must do it subtly One day, shortly before Christmas of 1949, he had gone up to the house in her absence while Arnold was taking a nap. Tiptoeing into the semidarkened bedroom, he had been alarmed because he could see no sign that the general was breathing. He had moved closer, bent over the bed, and looked directly down into the general's face  Arnold opened his eyes and roared, “What the hell do you want?”  1  n January 13, 1950, retired General of the Air Force Henry Harley Hap" Arnold, finding it difficult to complete an article on military  aviation for the Encyclopaedia Britannica, sent a telegram to the Britannica from his modest ranch house in the Valley of the Moon, near Sonoma, California. The telegram was characteristically impatient. It was also tragically prophetic; “Help. Have been working on rewrites for Britan- nica and am all at sea . What's the score before I strike out and the  game is called on account of darkness? ... Am I on the right trac  At that time, General Arnold had already suffered five heart attacks serious enough to require hospitalization. No one knew how many lesser attacks he had failed to report. His wife was now so concerned about his condition that she didn’t like to leave him home alone. When she had to  do so, she would ask Bruce Simmons, who had been his driver during active-duty days, to look in on him.? Simmons now lived just down the hill from the Arnolds and helped out on the little forty-acre “ranch” they had bought for their retirement years. The young master sergeant and the five-star general had developed a firm attachment to each other in the ten years since Simmons had become Arnold's driver. When Arnold retired in 1946, as one of only four permanent five-star generals in the nation’s history, he had invited Simmons to come with him to California and Simmons had gladly accepted. Occasionally they would have a falling-out owing to Arnold's well-known impatience, but he would make it up to S