every claim Mitchell was making for the airplane as an offensive weapon.) And on September 5, Mitchell put more fear into the Navy when his bombers, in another controlled test, sank the obsolete American battleships Virginia and New Jersey. While all of this was happening, Arnold's only accomplishment in the bel  guered cause of air power was to encourage two of his younger officers, Capt. Lowell Smith and Lt. J. P. Richter, in the first successful demon- stration of refueling in flight, an exercise that later proved useful in extending the range of planes on long missions.  Late in the year Arnold “managed to get back east” for a short ime and found Billy Mitchell “down in the dumps” despite his public popularity and his many accomplishments. He had reasons to be discontented. In 1921, General Pershing had bypassed him once more, after the resignation of General Menoher, to appoint Gen, Mason Patrick as chief of the Air Service, and Patrick was still in command. Part of Patrick's job, as he and Mitchell both knew, was to control the exuberant, impatient, unorthodox champion of air power, who some- times hurt his cause as much with his outbursts as he helped it with his achievements, The Navy was not Mitchell's only enemy. Many of the governing Army generals also disliked him, and a lot of congressmen were tired of his harangues. He needed someone to moderate him, and Patrick might have been able to fulfill that function if Mitchell had been willing to listen to him, but Mitchell interpreted resistance to his ideas as proof that his opponents we  stupid, stubborn, and stultified, their minds enmired in the nineteenth century. He may have been right, but  i ‘tym ait Veo Coby) pala  ‘Ntmtelay ally (thiseey pina ile iti wii Su i ‘ied tat ‘hk pith inuhiy iia wed  With fl  ken, bhai  1 fy  byt poe sani fins ub wilt  Po  115 HAP  Ardmore for consultations with Hap’s father, whose professional skills  she respected verv hichly even thanoh che found hic nereanalin  115 *» H