they were directed stood Maggie, their cook (who had sailed with them from New York but had come down ahead of them from San Francisco) and Maj Carl Spaatz (who commanded a combat wing at March) with his wife, Ruth.” A lavish Thanksgiving dinner was waiting for everyone at the Spaatz's quarters. Before they went to bed that night their spirits were somewhat improved  In the morning, when they inspected their new Spanish-style home, they were delighted, The house had four bedrooms and two baths, a screened back porch, and a breakfast nook large enough for Hap to convert into a study,  The base itself was in the process of being refurbished when Arnold arrived. Built as a World War training camp, it was now mostly a flying school, and the old barracks were being replaced by attractive, perma- nent buildings. Arnold’s first job was to phase out the flying school and convert the field into an operational base for fighters and bombers, some of which were already there. When his units came up to strength, he would be in command of two full groups—one of bombers and one of fighters. He appointed Maj. Joseph T. McNarney, the strict and sharp- tongued commandant of the flying school, to command the bombers; Maj. Frank O'D. “Monk” Hunter, a World War ace, to command the fighters; and Spaatz to handle the administrative chores as his executive officer.  Before he got very far with his military projects, Arnold found that he had a serious civilian problem. An Army uniform did not command great respect in America during the nineteen-twenties or -thirties. In  Riverside, ten miles from the base, it commanded almost no respect at  Thomas M. Coffey * 144  he had done. One of the observers was General King, his nemesis at Fort Leavenworth. When the exercise was finished, King sought out Arnold, and congratulated him for the way he had handled the G-4 assignment. He added that he had even appreciated the paper Arnold wrote as a graduation thesis, and told him finally that he ought to