truggle against the appropriations inroads of the Army gro!  and the Navy without wasting their energies fighting each other. One of    173 * HAP  Roosevelt administration and the Democratic Congress would prevent  The  mas M. Coffey  the first campaigns in which Arnold became embroiled was the effort to keep the War Department from using up a large portion of the Air Corps appropriations to buy short-range support planes, the kind Hugh  Drum favored, for the Infantry. The stakes in this battle were high. It  $n ot 4 < SRSA te Nacsa ne aoe eae  17 HAP  Roosevelt administration and the Democratic Congress would prevent the Air Corps from doing business with Boeing.'* This belief proved unfounded and the Air Corps hired Boeing to build a four-engine bomber, which was eventually designated the XB-15 (“X experimental).  meaning  In August 1934, the Boeing, Martin, and Douglas aircraft compa nies all entered competition to create another plane, which, the Air Corps specified, should be able to carry a ton of bombs at 250 miles per hour, but with the much shorter range of 2200 miles. A year later, Boeing’s Model 299, a four-engine, all-metal craft with five gun em- placements, which was a smaller but much improved variation of the XB-15, flew nonstop from Seattle to Wright Field in Dayton to compete against the Martin B-12 and the Douglas B-18, both twin-engine planes with limited capabilities. No Air Corps officials were on hand to see the Boeing entry land at Wright Field because it arrived two or three hours earlier than expected. It had cruised from Seattle at 233 miles per hour.  The competition was decided almost before it began. The Boeing 299 was a handsome machine, so big it made the oth It could carry much larger loads farther and faster. It w And it was so well armed that a newsman dubbed it the  planes look puny.  s also easy to fly.  Flying Fortress.” As its modifications began, the 299 became the Y1B-17, and eventually, with several improvements, the celebra