has been noted that even President Roosevelt addressed him as “General Marshall.” When Marshall and Arnold were at work together, they addressed each other formally, as General Kuter has observed. But when they were alone together, or in social situations, they called each  other Hap and George  In addition to his strictly military duties, Arnold somehow found time for a lot of peripheral matters, even during the early months of the war. He corresponded with Irving Berlin about the possibility of Berlin's composing a new Air Forces anthem.? With Ira Eaker, he completed editing a book entitled Army Flyer, which they had written together to stimulate enlistments. (It was published in May 1942.)  From President Roosevelt on March 7 he received a private, hand written “Dear Hap” letter that he could hardly ignore: “I am a bit con-  cerned because Elliott has a rather bad chronic case of haemoroids  267  Thomas M. Coffey # 266  in his work, so worried about the problems of the war, that he had room in his mind for nothing else.  It was a brutally difficult time for Bee. Though proud of Hap, she was losing touch with him. Though close to the world-shaking excite- ment in which he was involved, she was not a part of it. She had lost her husband to the war. The magic that had made them celebrate their wedding date every month in the early years of their marriage was long since gone. There was no time now even for the comradeship they had  enjoyed in more recent years. These losses were much more difficult for  her to absorb than anyone near her realized. While she seemed unchanged on the surface, her loneliness was beginning to bear down upon her. But even Hap didn’t seem to notice  C CHAP TER 15 >)  n March 1942, at Marshall's behest, the Arnolds moved from  Bethesda to a commodious house, Quarters #8, at Fort Myer, across the Potomac in Virginia, near the Pentagon Building, which was then under construction. For wartime security reasons, Marshall wanted the top Army comma