een talk of confiscating or militarizing all the airlines, Arnold decided he didn't favor that. It seemed to him that the individual lines could operate more effectively on their own, under the direction of the A.T.C. and in  compliance with its priority system.  HAP  Trippe, however, was angered by Arnold’s decision and though he had to abide by the arrangement, never did reconcile himself to it. When C. R. Smith began recruiting airline executives to help run the A.T.C., he was not able to get cooperation from Pan American  Again that summer Bee Arnold went to Nag'’s Head for relief from her severe hay fever, taking David with her and leaving Hap alone in Washington. Becoming aware, perhaps, of the way she had been cut out of his life by the war, and of the growing gulf between them, he stopped to see her at Nag’s Head on one of his trips south and involved her in a project that would not only give her something to do but would also filla serious need. The Air Forces, he said, should have some kind of unofficial organization to help men with special problems, and to help the families of men who were killed or wounded. Would she fly to Washington and talk to Bob Lovett about the idea?**  She was in Washington the next day, and a few days later Arnold held a meeting of his entire staff with their wives. He talked to them about the need for an Air Forces relief society, asked the wives if they would volunteer to work for it, then turned to Bee and said, “You'll take charge of it.”  She did so with such enthusiasm that she soon had forty thousand  Air Forces wives all over the country contributing their time, and  hundreds of industrialists contributing money, “But without solicit tion,” she claimed later with a smile, “We weren't allowed to solicit for funds.”  The Air Forces Relief Society under Bee Arnold helped thousands of distressed or wounded airmen and thousands of bereaved families throughout the war, but it did not help bridge the gulf between Bee and her hu