orps would be  grant Boeing a contract because in | was runnin:  The Boeing Aircraft € ompany in Seattle submitted pl.  allowed to when Franklin D. Roosevelt  g for president, the company would not allow him to enter its plant and address its employees,  even though Republican candidates  were allowed to do so. Many people in Washington believed that the  17 HAP  Roosevelt administration and the Democratic Congress would prevent the Air Corps from doing business with Boeing.'* This belief proved unfounded and the Air Corps hired Boeing to build a four-engine bomber, which was eventually designated the XB-15 (“X  meaning experimental).  In August 1934, the Boeing, Martin, and Douglas aircraft compa nies all entered competition to create another plane, which, the Air  Corps specified, should be able to carry a ton of bombs at 250 miles per hour, but with the much shorter range of 2200 miles. A year later, Boeing’s Model 299, a four-engine, all-metal craft with five gun em- placements, which was a smaller but much improved variation of the XB-15, flew nonstop from Seattle to Wright Field in Dayton to compete against the Martin B-12 and the Douglas B-18, both twin-engine planes with limited capabilities. No Air Corps officials were on hand to see the Boeing entry land at Wright Field because it arrived two or three hours earlier than expected. It had cruised from Seattle at 233 miles per hour. : The competition was decided almost before it began. The Boeing 299 was a handsome machine, so big it made the other planes look puny. It could carry much larger loads farther and faster. It was also easy to fly. And it was so well armed that a newsman dubbed it the As its modifications began, the 299 became the Y1B-17, and eventually, with several improvements, the celebrated B-17, But before that hap-  Flying Fortress.”  pened, there was a lot of travail. , or On October 30, 1935, Maj. Ployer P. “Pete” Hill, chief of the Wright Field Flight Testing Section, decided he would fly