actory  recalled, “He listened to part of my report, then he would inte of back me against the wall, shake his finger at me and tell things that were wrong about the Air Force in general and sance in particular. He was not critical of my report so much critical of the things I was reporting on, and why we were n better job in our own Air Forces on reconnaissance and phc But the thing that impressed me most was, he seemed to be h responsible for this lack of progress—holding me responsible ills of the Air Force.”'*  It was soon evident that Arnold had come away from meeting liking Cabell better than Cabell liked him, When (¢ Norstad were called into Arnold’s office, he began by showi new Air Forces organizational chart with a little box leading ou commanding general's box. In this box were the words council,”  “You two boys,” Arnold said, “will be my advisory counci  small office that reports directly to me and can help me  257 * HAP  per man, whereas school construction costs at the time would be about $1,000 per man. Though he had difficulty convincing the War Depart-  Thomas M. Coffey 256  list of the staff's projects that will have to be deferred if mine is to be implemented, and sometimes the implication that my idea isn’t as good  as yours anyway. All I get back are reasons why it can’t be done.”  ane ta tell Arnold wae thar eamethina  oe  257 * HAP  per man, whereas school construction costs at the time would be about $1,000 per man. Though he had difficulty convincing the War Depart- ment of this saving, he eventually succeeded, and before he was through the Air Forces had taken over about five hundred hotels for its training program, which was now bursting its seams. i  When Weaver secured the Miami Beach hotels, Arnold was already on the verge of relieving him as acting chief of Air Forces. His adroit Florida transaction came too late to save him. In March, Arnold sent him to Knollwood, North Carolina, to take over the Eastern Technical Training Command. At