ver, two ‘ordinary’ Americans from an ordinary town in the state of Ohio had not only grasped and advanced the whole known science of aerodynamics —they had become its admitted masters.”  On the days when the weather was too foul for anything but “hangar flying,” the boys at Simms Station sat around trying to outdo each other with their harrowing tales of aerial adventure. “The best times of all,” according to Arnold,  were when the Wright brothers themselves joined us. There was a saying among early airmen that when the Wrights were on the ground—quiet Orville in his derby and business suit, the even gentler Wilbur in plain cap—you never recognized them, but when they were in the air, they could be spotted miles away  Their presence in the hangar always made the sessions different Despite their mild, retiring way of listening unul everyone else had made his speech you always felt them there. They were usually so courteous, almost diffident, really. Wilbur, for example, often hesitated to give an opinion without first consulting the little black notebook of aeronautical data he always carried with him.  Once, I remember well, a loud argument was in progress about just how the loop would be accomplished—a time we hoped was not far off. Opinions differed as to whether it would be done from “the inside” or “the outside”; as to just how the airplane would behave The Wright brothers listened with interest, never saying a word. Then, as everyone was laying down the law about this or that approach, Wilbur quietly attracted our attention and pointed over- head. In the slightly windy air far above the top of the shed, a lark was fighting hard to fly straight upward, and as we watc hed, the bird struggled over on its back and curved down again, coming out in level flight from a crude but indisputable loop.  An even more telling indication of the effect the Wrights had upon Hap Arnold was a remark he made in summing up his feelings about them. “More than anyone I have ever kno