Lovett felt that Arnold recognized in Marshall “one of the truly great figures that this country has produced,” and that Marshall recognized in Arnold “a dedicated officer in a field in which he, General Marshall, was not specialized, and at the same time ... a human being, this warm-hearted, loyal, mercurial, flamboyant belligerent fellow who didn’t care who he took on in battle  Marshall undoubtedly saw in Arnold the great big, bubbling, energetic, and clumsy boy who would be dangerous in a china shop, but he also was aware of Arnold’s genius as a builder, a motivator, a synthesizer. And he so appreciated Arnold's genius that he was tolerant of, and perhaps amused by, the boy in him.  He even tolerated Arnold's outrageously boyish practical jokes. One day, earlier in the year, Arnold, on a mischievous impulse, had sent an old friend, comedian Vince Barnett, into Marshall's office, pretending to be a wealthy European immigrant, In a thick accent, he told the dignified general he wanted to get into the flying business  347, « HAP  Marshall, bewildered at the sudden appearance of this odd- looking stranger, said, “Who are you? How did you get in here?”  “You know what I want,” Barnett said in his musical-comedy accent. “You can fix it for me.” Thereupon he pulled out a wad of currency and dropped it on Marshall's desk.  Marshall, in a fury, was shouting, “Get out! Get out!” when Arnold, who had been listening outside the door, came in, laughing,**  When Marshall and Arnold reached London they were welcomed by British Army commander Sir Alan Brooke, Portal, Spaatz, and several other high officers. Spaatz drove Arnold to the country house at which he was billeted, but Arnold was so tired he fell asleep in the car during their conversation. “Two and a half hours sleep does not go very well any more,” he noted in his diary. The house in which he was ensconced, sitting on two hundred manicured acres, had been built by Henry VIII  as a hunting lodge.**  Arnold didn’t spend