esult, Lois had a problem to  explain when she came home from school the following summer, She  165 * HAP  had flunked one of her science courses, She would have to go back for summer school to make up the credit. This news astonished Arnold. If she could earn straight A’s in  junior college, why in hell should she flunk a course at the university? As  he gradually learned, science class met at eight o'clock and Lois had a hard time getting up that early because she was staying out late at night. With whom? With one after another of Arnold’s young pilots.  It was more than Arnold was willing to accept from her. Losing all patience, he informed her she was not going back to summer s¢ hool. Indeed, she was not going back to college at all, and that was final.  “All I can think of,” he said to college because of this goddamned Depression, and here you are flunking out because you can’t make an eight-o'clock class. Your college  are the thousands of kids who can’t get  days are over.” He would enroll her in a secretarial school right there in Riverside.  Though this was a brutal blow to Lois, she soon found herself traveling the ten miles to Riverside every morning. But not necessarily to attend her classes at the secretarial school. She managed to find a congenial soda fountain where she could while away her time drinking Cokes. She just couldn't picture herself as a secretary.  The Baker Board hearings of April and May 1934, originated for Sorps’ inability to carry the airmail,  the purpose of investigating the Air had become, in effect, another arena in the continuing battle between air men and doubters—ground and Navy men—over the potential uses of airplanes in national defense. With men like Hugh Drum of the Infantry declaring that no Army airplane's range should exceed three days’ march by the Infantry, and the Navy's Rear Adm. Yates Stirling declaring that airplanes would be the “eyes” of the fleet but that “a shore-based air force” could function “only in narrow