f-key baritone, “Some of these days, you're gonna miss me, honey,” It seemed to Bruce that for the first time in months he was really happy. He was getting out of Washington.  Within thirty-six hours, the Arnolds were completely packed, furni- ture and all, Bee took the children to Ardmore overnight while Hap cleared up his remaining affairs in Washington, It was the only time Hank had ever seen his mother cry  On the train from Philadelphia west, the children could hear their parents talking guardedly, “They tried to disguise their conversation to fool us,” Bruce later recalled, “but we weren't idiots. Before we were halfway across Missouri, we all knew that Pop had been kicked out of Washington in disgrace, and was never to return.”"”  By this time, Hap had decided the best way to handle the situation was to tell the kids openly what they had better expect. The sons of those Fort Riley cavalrymen were likely to be laying for Bruce and Hank, whom the family still called Bunky. “Now look here,” he said to them, “when we get to Fort Riley, those Cavalry boys are going to jump on you because your father has had some trouble. But whatever happens, you take it on the chin. I want you to prove you're good Air Service boys.”  They arrived at the Fort Riley railway station on a cold and sleeting February afternoon expecting a reception to match the weather, espe- cially since the commanding officer there was Gen. Ewing E. Booth, “a stern old Cavalryman” who had been one of the judges during Mitchell's court-martial, But when they got off the train they found a savior awaiting them in the person of Capt. Fabian Pratt, the flight surgeon for the 16th Observation Squadron, which Arnold had been assigned to command. He had arranged for the Arnolds’ quarters, a big, old stone house with a large porch, and even provided a hot meal. Pratt did everything possible to make them comfortable, but there was one thing  aally retired se had only to it in the red, and he  | post, when  ne