n the fun. He woul models of all the Nativity figures, human and at were converted into cookies and given time to ¢ his guidance, would decorate them with icin  include in the scene at least one challenging and  figure, like a rearing horse. “During a miracle,” horse wouldn't stand still.”  Less than a month after Christmas, on received bad news. His mother had died, He hu: funeral and found his father prostrate with gri had never been able to express his feelings fo alive, displayed them pathetically now, “Father Hap wrote to Bee, who had stayed home with th short time [yesterday]. He tries to be brave and s but it comes mighty hard. He will have to do a  One disturbing sign of the times struck Ha    ra    143 * HAP  “  143 * HAP  He looked directly at Hank, who kept his eyes down and said nothing.  “Probably a good thing,” Arnold said at last. “If they had put that plane on the scrap heap with eleven hundred gallons of gas in it, we'd have had a hell of an explosion.”  But while Hank's scrapes usually arose from boyish curiosity, Lois’s waywardness was becoming a cause for deep concern. Her temper was violent; when she went into a tantrum she lost all self-control, and since she was now a budding woman, she was big enough to be dangerous. One night when the Arnolds were away, she got into an argument at the dinner table with Hank and Bruce. If their father had been there he would undoubtedly have stopped it quickly—he tolerated no nonsense at the table. But perhaps because of the rigid restraints upon them when he was present, his children would sometimes cut loose and become astonishingly wild when he was absent. One of them on this occasion threw a wet paper napkin, whereupon all of them began throwing wet napkins, followed by glasses of water and eventually a whole pitcher of water.  By this time Lois was so furious she was beyond reason. Grabbing a  carving knife, she took a wild swipe at Hank and cut through the sleeve of his coat, miraculously missing his ar