etic to the young man because he too had once left the Naval Academy under similar circumstances. “I'll es you're getting ready to sign onto a ship,” he said to Bruce. “That's what I almost did.”  Bruce admitted it was exactly what he intended.  “You can do that if you wish,” the captain said, “but you've got to face the old man sometime. It’s easier to get it over with right sik =  Sufficiently persuaded, Bruce returned home. His mother ; ai His father bellowed, “What the hell are you going to do now? i  Nothing had changed. “I'd like to try for West Point,” Bruce said You can't go to West Point,” his father insisted :  Having just been dismissed from the Naval Academy, Bruce could hardly argue that. He decided to go to New York, see the World's FE  air, and figure out what to do with his life.  The decision c : ame quickly after he left Washington. He knew that each year some s Idie:  through competition to atte i Pe Pp to attend West Point. He would enlist in the Army  and, with i » 1 luck, win one of the soldier appointments, then enter the academy whether his father liked it or not  rs were selected  When he ~ “3 en he called home to announce proudly that he had enlisted, his  father, still angry and disappointed, said, “It better  Cane not be the Air  Sudde: e lenly Bruce became just as angry. “I wouldn't be in your  oddamne & g red lousy outfit,” he yelled, and slammed down the receiver.  A week late: = ater, his father, apparently feeling some remorse but not  quite able to unbend enouw admit it openly, sent anot officer to 7 e gh nil penly, sen er 4 h 4 h ice  talk il to Bruce. “He wants to know what he can do for you,”  a * the officer  “You can tell him,” Bruce said,  “that what I want F ; a a 1m tc -¢ to leave me to hell alone.” ee  Arnold seemed to sense now that he h young man find his own way in the sense that he  ad better back off and let the world. He may also have begun to was paying a penalty for |  ena us career, which had kept him  203 * HAP  a