lmost impossible to watch men do anything without telling them how to do it better. This gave rise to some delicate situations because no one wanted to tell the commanding officer's father to go to hell.  A new base theater was under construction when he arrived and he especially enjoyed visiting the site because it seemed to him the men working on it needed a lot of guidance. One day the contractor visited Arnold at base headquarters and insisted that something had to be done. His men were civilians and they didn’t have to take it any more.  Hap spoke sharply to his father that night, which proved of course that Hap, too, needed some instruction. When Hap persisted in his error, the old man took considerable umbrage, but he did, thereafter, stay away from the theater site. Fortunately for him, other activities on the base needed his attention. He began to spread his advice around, and there were no more complaints about him for quite a while because no group was getting a concentrated dose of him. One day, however, he discovered the repair hangars on the flight line When he saw what the mechanics were doing with those aircraft engines, he couldn't resist pointing out their mistakes.  Thomas M. Coffey * 146  all. The people there, including the merchants, were not above posting Dogs and Soldiers—Keep Out.” Relations between the  signs that read: Air Corps troops and the good citizens were so strained that Arnold  arranged a meeting with the city fathers, hoping to relieve the situation. When he realized this meeting had done no good, he tried a new strategy. He declared Riverside off limits to all of his men and provided buses to take them to San Bernardino on their free days  Riverside merchants soon felt the business loss so acutely that it was they who asked for the next meeting. At their request, Arnold agreed to  cancel his off-limits order, but for the next several months he had his  men paid in two-dollar bills so the Riverside shopkeepers would have continui