gress was not alone in its reluctance to spend money on such an outlandish endeavor as flying. Most Army officers were certain they didn’t need any airplanes.  Arnold was pleased to be reunited with Tommy Milling, an amiable, round-faced young man, two or three inches shorter and considerably lighter than Arnold, just as quick-witted but somewhat less dynamic. Like Arnold, he had been chosen for this duty by Captain Cowan, whom he came to know at Fort Leavenworth after Cowan's return from the Philippines. He had caught Cowan's attention because of his dashing style as a polo player and the fact that he rode around the base on a wild, outlaw horse. Athletic skill and courage seemed likely to be useful qualities in a flier. Since Arnold and Milling were two years apart at the Military Academy, they had not been pals, but they were destined now to be very close for at least the next two years, despite a certain element of competition between them. After their initial introduction to the Wright plant, they returned to Dayton, found a boardinghouse, and rented adjoining rooms.  Their training began with twelve-hour days of ground instruction at the factory, where they learned first how the Wright airplane was constructed and maintained. It was built around a light cypress frame and covered with canvas, which had to be stretched tight and then stiffened with a chemical paint. The control wires were exposed, and their tension could be tested only by strumming them like the strings of a guitar or a violin and listening for the proper sound. The plane's pair of side-by-side seats and the engine—just to the right of them—were also completely exposed to the elements. The two pusher-type propellors, located behind the double wings, were connected to the forty-  four-cylinder engine by bicycle chains, which Arnold (It was only natural that the  horsepower, scarcely trusted when he first saw them Wrights should have thought of bicycle chains to drive their propellors,  since they