d generals, the kind of air force he had been trying to build for the last three years.  Still smarting at the British remarks about the B-17 in combat, he sent Gen. George Brett to London to find out if the plane was ac tually as inept and hopeless as they claimed. And to make sure the British didn’t outstrip the United States in the new field of jet propulsion, he put the Bell Aircraft Corporation to work on the prototype of a jet fighter plane, using as a basic model the specifications he had brought back from England.  In August, at Marshall's invitation, he attended the Argentia (Newfoundland) Conference between Roosevelt and C hurchill, at which the Atlantic Charter was promulgated. The purpose of the conference was to serve notice on Hitler that America sympathized entirely with his enemies. The Adantic Charter was a declaration in favor of all the freedoms, national and personal, that Hitler was trying, with fearsome  success, to suppress. It declared that neither the United States nor Great  were astonished to learn I said, “My God! You don't leaves you!”  On his return to Was senior Air Corps officers a his impressions of the situ two meetings at the Whit Hopkins, After the secon and said, “Pete, you've go can't make it.”  He gave Quesada the had noticed his negative forbidden him to make  pessimism about England  While the president 1 about the plight of Englan way Arnold was handling I plan Robert Lovett had be Corps and give it more a Regulation 95-5 establishe Air Corps) with an air staff who would also be Army de fill those two roles, would ¢ would have official control  cation of his authority he  Marshall, who later said, tried to make him as near any restraint.”  The first piece of wor remarkable document whic the air staff's recently form and as it happened a remar any war that might arise < work of four exceptional Kenneth Walker, Maj. Hay the plan assigned four basic the air over the Western I  strategy in the Pacific durir    Thomas M. Coffey 2