e, the Chief of the Air Corps will carry out his instructions to the letter.”  When Arnold testified secretly before the House Military Affairs Committee on March 5 that the Air Corps would have to pay an extra $20 million for 2,100 new planes, partly because of foreign orders, he was acutely aware of the delicacy of his situation, as the above statement indicates. But he seems to have overestimated the discretion of congress- men and underestimated the intensity of President Roosevelt's feelings in the matter.  The White House meeting March 12 at which the president castigated Woodring and Arnold, and threatened to send Arnold to Guam if he didn’t cooperate, was not the only meeting on the subject in the Oval Office that day. The president met privately with Morgenthau, his military aide, Gen. “Pa” Watson, and his confidential secretary, Stephen Early. At that meeting, Arnold had no friends. Morgenthau was annoyed not only at Arnold's testimony, which exposed the division within the administration, but also at the refusal of Woodring, Johnson, rnold to release to the Allies “certain engines and  “and particularly” designs still classified as secret.’ Morgenthau’s effectiveness was “just  Thomas M. Coffey  © though they may  have done so in private, Marshall was but I never heard of his pulling rank over Arnold  always senior Arnold was  of him askir  inounce his intentions and plans, | never heard  Marshall's permission. Theirs was a unique top-side  relationship.”  But while Arnold now had Marshall squarely on his side, the same could not be said of Morgenthau. The embarrassing Chemidlin affair of January 1939 and the conflicting testimony by the two men over who had authorized the French representative's flight in a classified Ameri- can plane had caused a breach between them, which widened as the aircraft companies concentrated increasingly on foreign orders. In February 1939, the British purchasing mission had ordered 650 planes from North American and Lockheed