ead- quarters, it became each weekend a swarming hive of young ladies, all from proper families and all well chaperoned, who were there to dance with their cadet friends at the academy hops or go walking around the grounds with them during the precious few hours the cadets had free  Whether Arnold was eagerly anticipating Eleanor Pool’s visit has never been recorded. He was attracted to women, like most young men, yet he was inordinately awkward and shy around them, partly because his country background had not taught him many of the social graces.” He didn’t know how to approach a girl, make small talk, or strike up a friendship with her. With boys it was easy. All you had to do was shake hands, slap them on the back, argue with them and maybe out-shout them if they disagreed with you. But girls had to be treated according to a set of rules he had never learned—except for the etiquette the academy had imposed on him, he could rely only on country manners, polite but hardly polished. A simple pastime like dancing, for example, was so far beyond his competence that he never attended a hop until his senior year, and then only once—not because he shared his father's view of dancing as a moral danger, but simply because dancing was so foreign to his family’s way of life and he knew so little about it that he was embarrassed even to try it.  It was not until Betty Arnold and Eleanor Pool, having settled  Thomas M. Coffey * 22  such a glorious piece of mischief he was almost proud to have it pinned upon him  One day, when they were at liberty from the post, the Black Handers found a shop where they could buy fireworks. Pooling their funds, they bought almost the entire stock—if a thing was worth doing, it was worth doing well. On the appointed night, having planned and timed their operation with all the precision and coordination of a military attack, they let loose such a varied and deafening series of salvos from every corner of the grounds that, in Arnold’s words, “bug