n managed to get out of debt and establish for themselves a modest savings account,  The rural setting of their farmhouse was ideally picturesque for Christmas, and Christmas was a feast that brought out the child in Hap Arnold. True to his German family tradition, he re-created the whole Nativity scene each year, using cookies that he shaped and baked himself.’ It was a task for which he had to set aside a whole day, usually the Saturday before Christmas, when all of his children and many of their friends could take part in the fun. He would first cut out cardboard models of all the Nativity figures, human and animal. When these forms were converted into cookies and given time to cool, the children, under his guidance, would decorate them with icing. Each year he would include in the scene at least one challenging and apparently incongruous figure, like a rearing horse. “During a miracle,  "he would tell the kids, “a horse wouldn't stand still.”  Less than a month after Christmas, on January 18, 1930, Hap received bad news. His mother had died, He hurried to Ardmore for the funeral and found his father prostrate with grief, Old Dr. Arnold, who had never been able to express his feelings for his wife while she was alive, displayed them pathetically now, “Father has been geting better,” Hap wrote to Bee, who had stayed home with the children. “He was up a short time [yesterday], He tries to be brave and stand up under the strain but it comes mighty hard. He will have to do a lot of readjusting.”*  One disturbing sign of the times struck Hap while he was comfort-  141 * HAP  ing his father. His brother Price arrived for his mother’s funeral by bus because he couldn't afford train fare.  In April 1930, Arnold took charge of logistics for a 250-plane Air Corps mass maneuver at Sacramento, California, and he did the job so well he won the same assignment the following year, when a similar maneuver was held at Dayton with nearly 700 airplanes. On April 17, 1930, during th