xtraordinary that he could have forgotten any part of such a crucial incident in his life. When a man took off in an airplane in 1911, he was doing something only a few dozen people had done before him. And he was entrusting his life to a machine that was  interurban line from Dayton to Simms Station for their first fights  not much more trustworthy than a tiger.  What information we have about Arnold's first flight comes from his first log.* He and Welsh were aloft for seven minutes and the air was “rough”; Arnold did not touch the controls, During the next eleven days, he and Welsh flew together twenty-eight times for a total of three hours and forty-eight minutes, an average of eight minutes per flight. On the third flight he was allowed to put his “hand on elevator,” and on the fourth, he “had charge of elevator part of time.” Not until his ninth flight did he have charge of the warping lever part of the time. On the eleventh, he “handled levers nearly all of time.” On the twelfth, he began learning to land the plane, and on the nineteenth flight, he sistance.” From that flight onward, he was in charge  “landed without a of the aircraft. “I could fly! I was an aviator!” he later exclaimed.  He was ready at last to go up alone, but there was one irritating aspect to that. Tommy Milling had soloed a few days ahead of Arnold and considered himself slightly superior to Arnold as a “natural pilot,” a phrase much in use before pilots began talking about “flying by the seat of the pants.” For many years (even today in some circles), it was believed that a flier, like an athlete, had to have a certain instinct for the job, and that the best fliers were those with natural aptitude, those with so much  Thomas M. Coffey 44  in order to make the propellors rotate in opposite directions and thus balance the torque, the chain leading to one propellor had to be crossed like a figure eight.  Well, you can’t cross a bicycle chain, Arnold said to himself when he saw it. It will b