ilippines. The Combined Chiefs ended their discussion by voting to solicit opinions from Mac- Arthur and Nimitz on the matter  On June 12, Marshall, Arnold, King, Eisenhower, and their aides boarded the destroyer Thompson in Portsmouth harbor for a trip across the Channel to the beachhead that had been established six days earlier. As they left the harbor at a speed of thirty knots, they passed “hundreds of ships of all kinds.” Arnold had never before seen “such a mass, uninterrupted and unimpeded.” And off the French coast, there were hundreds more at anchor, waiting to be unloaded. “What a field day for the G.A.F. [German Air Force],” Arnold noted in his diary, “if there is a G.A.F.”  After transferring to a landing craft, Ike and his party of dignitaries went ashore at Omaha Beach, where Gen. Omar Bradley and staff met them, and Arnold got a chance to say hello to Pete Quesada, who was Bradley's air commander. After lunch and a briefing at Bradley's headquarters, Arnold, with Quesada and Larry Kuter, toured the Air Forces installations, which included one landing strip already in opera- tion, a second one due to be ready for use that night, a third and fourth to be ready in two days, and a fifth to be ready in three days. Quesada had managed all this in just six days. The air above them was swarming with American and British planes. Quesada told Arnold the Allies had 4,000 planes in the air that day, As far as Arnold could see, the Germans had none. Four P-51s and three Spitfires had been shot down, but not by the Germans. Quick-trigger Navy gunners had hit them. “Our own Navy,” Arnold commented in his diary, “[is] far more dangerous than the G.A.F.”  The trip to the beachhead was short and well organized. By 6:00 p-m. the same day, the generals and admirals were back in London, where, after a bath, Arnold found himself feeling fine. “A drink and I will feel no pain,” he noted. Since his heart attacks, his doctors had suggested he take a drink or two each day.  F