ould send them there. He e sure MacArthur understood and accepted this jo my best to tell him, and I'll do my best to make  I'm not going to make him like it. ived in Australia, he saw Kenney first and, over a hisky, spent a whole night explaining the situation. ).” He had assumed he would get the first batch of argued with Kuter for hours, “first bullying, then g to force me to change my story, go back and tell 2”  Kuter Richard K. wur's chief of staff, and spent four hours explaining  He also asked and expected to see MacArthur  utherland heard the whole story, he told Kuter  went to the office of Gen  yusy to see him.  there as Arnold's representative, he was amazed at or three days before he left for home, he said, and timself available at MacArthur's convenience.  he was sorry but MacArthur wouldn't be able to er, since he and Kenney had heard the story, that  urned to Washington, he found that Arnold was iold had received a cablegram from MacArthur dn’t had the courtesy to call on him when he visited rnold had already drafted a cable to MacArthur rudeness shown by my Deputy Chief of Staff.” when he saw this cable. “You don’t apologize,” he | you don't send that message. You either fire me or kind of message.” He then told Arnold the whole  re end of it  | some bad news on February 24 about the airlift Hump from India to China. Since his promise to ear earlier, the A.T.C. had been gradually increas- he Hump, but the airlift hadn't quite kept pace with  is. Now he learned that during January and the first  Thomas M. Coffey * 338  definitely in favor of the Allies. And there was no more talk from the British about putting an end to daylight bombing. With the addition of long-range fighter escorts, the American strategy of daylight precision  bombing was beginning to prove sound,  Arnold could now almost relax about the air war in Europe, but his worries about the B-29, China, and Japan were intensifying. First he had to settle the question of who would control th