k in London, where, after a bath, Arnold found himself feeling fine. “A drink and I will feel no pain,” he noted. Since his heart attacks, his doctors had suggested he take a drink or two each day.  From England, Marshall and Arnold traveled to Italy and the Mediterranean, inspecting all the fronts, before heading for home June 21. The trip was entirely without ill effect for Arnold, despite an uneasy moment when one of DeGaulle’s French pilots in a P-39 almost  349 # HAP  collided with their C-54 as it was landing at Casablanca. By the time they reached Washington, Arnold’ third heart attack was so far bebind him that he went back to work as if it hadn't happened. But the incoming details of the first B-29 raid on the Japanese homeland were almost  sufficient to bring on a fourth attack,  Led by Blondie Saunders, seventy-five Superforts had taken off from their Chinese bases in the late afternoon of June 18 for the 3,200-mile round trip to Yawata, on the island of Kyushu.” They intended to destroy the Imperial Iron and Steel Works, which produced, according to intelligence reports, twenty-four percent of Japan's rolled steel, Because formation flying used too much fuel, Wolfe and Saunders, with Armold’s concurrence, decided to make it a night mission, with the planes following each other and bombing individually  One bomber crashed on takeoff and four others had to turn back because of mechanical problems, Saunders dropped his bombs at 11:38 pam, Tokyo time, and having li the target fr those behind him, headed for home. But only forty-seven of those behind him were able to find Yawata. Of the sixty-tight planes that dropped bombs, twenty-one unloaded on what were cuphemistcally called “other target Though Japanese antiaircraft fire was able to destroy only one plane, seven were Jost because of various malfunctions, And after these melancholy statis: tics had been compiled, the most disheartening of all had now become  apparent. Aerial photos showed that conly one b