as reluctant to punish Dargue, who had been his personal pilot and was one of his most reliable aides, but he wasn’t at all hesitant about punishing Arnold, with whom he had never been on friendly terms. One day in 1925, he had become so angry at his information officer that he had thrown a paperweight at him." General Patrick now called Arnold into his office to announce to him that as a result of his attempts at “influencing legislation in a manner forbidden by regula- tions and otherwise decidedly objectionable,”"* he had two choices. “You ‘or you can take a court-  can resign from the Army,” Patrick said, martial.”  Both choices seemed inordinately severe. After recovering from his surprise, Arnold said, “How long do I have to decide?”  Now it was Patrick’s turn to be surprised. Resignation from the Army would seem infinitely preferable to a trial that was certain to establish his guilt and entail dismissal from the Army as well as public disgrace. Still, he had given the unmanageable major a choice. “You  have twenty-four hours,” he said. Arnold went back to his office, called his wife, and asked her to meet r Constitution Avenue."* When she arrived, they  him in the Ellipse, ne: sat down on a park bench, despite the February cold, and he told her about Patrick’s ultimatum. Nhat do you think I should do?” he asked  Eleanor Arnold was not a timid woman. She remembered that two years earlier, when they were stationed in San Diego, General Patrick had asked her husband to try to influence a California congressman in favor of a bill the Air Service wanted.  Thomas M. Coffey * 4  When the full scope of their ordeal became known—an ordeal which might have been shortened if the search had begun immediately —unrest intensified among the young fliers and students at the San Diego Aviation School. Arnold and Dargue incited further unrest by demanding an Army investigation of the matter. They succeeded, in a manner of speaking, but theirs was a Pyrrhic victory. Long befor