ulnes the night of September  in a B-2  Thomas M. Coffey = $52  Because Bee's hay fever was even more severe than usual in 1944, she and David were spending the summer at Kezar Lake in Maine. Hap, with Bill and Mary Streett (Bill was back from the Pacific), drove up there on September 10 to celebrate the Arnolds’ wedding anniversary They found Bee in better condition than they expected. Hap’s brother Cliff, who was a doctor, had given her a new medicine that had proved marvelously helpful. “I have no idea what's in it,” Arnold said in a letter to Hank,” “but there must be lots of dope.” In any case, it put her on her feet and raised her spirits, The Streetts and the Arnolds had “a big time” marking the anniversary, even though Arnold had calculated the year incorrectly. He thought it was their thirtieth; actually it was their thirty-first.  From Kezar Lake, Arnold continued on to Quebec, where, on the twelfth, another meeting between Roosevelt and Churchill, the Octagon Conference, began. There were a few important matters to discuss. Would the British Navy be needed in the Pacific? Admiral King, feeling confident, and perhaps unwilling to share authority, said no. What could be done about the situation in Warsaw, Poland, where the advancing Russians were apparently standing by and allowing the Germans to slaughter Polish resistance fighters? Virtually nothing. But aside from such questions, the debates in Quebec were centered mostly on details of command structure in Europe, where Allied armies, having broken through German defenses in France, were moving inexorably toward the Rhine. :  When Arnold returned from Quebec, he began conc entrating on a new phase of his Air Forces responsibility—cutbacks in production and personnel. The flow of men, planes and supplies (except B-29s) to all  theaters was now so plentiful that Arnold and Lovett felt it had to be restrained to prevent waste,  Arnold said to his staff one day, “Just because I turned all the spigots on, isn