only occasionally, and then sparingly. Who could have told the president such a thing? The only person who was close to the president and also knew Arnold well was the president's military aide, Col. Edwin M. “Pa” Watson, a popular officer whom the President enjoyed because he was an excellent raconteur.  Watson and Arnold had been classmates at West Point until Watson was held back from the 1907 to the 1908 class. He had some academic difficulties that might have flunked him out were it not for his popularity with faculty and fellow students. For reasons that remain obscure, he did not like Hap Arnold and he didn’t hesitate to say so. Many of their mutual acquaintances assumed, therefore, that he was the author of the slander against Arnold, but this has never been established positively, and it is possible that Watson was quite innocent Some people believed the drinking rumor arose from a remark by Army and Navy Journal editor John Callan O'Laughlin in a letter to General Pershing. In any case,  however the rumor may have arisen, it quite naturally damaged Arnold  in the eyes of the president.  Arnold was still in limbo on September 28 when he was invited to a White House meeting called by the president.*” On this date, British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain was already in Munich, preparing to appease Hitler by bestowing Czechoslovakia upon him. With that in mind, Roosevelt urgently called to his office Secretary of War Woc odring,  Thomas M. Coffey 182  most important men in town. On Septem Hopkins and Roosevelt  were in an automobile in Rochester, Minnesota, where Roosevelt's son  James was undergoing surgery, and were listening by car radio to a giant  Nazi Party rally in Nuremberg. After hearing Hitler's harangue and his unveiled threats, Roosevelt snapped off the radio, turned to Hopkins, and told him to go looking immediately for new aircraft-factory sites on the West Coast. “The President was sure then,” Hopkins later wrote, that we were going to get in