language was often profane, it was seldom earthy or obscene. He had been taught as a boy that bodily functions were unmentionable, and he was so uncomfortable mentioning them that he would usually resort to euphemisms when forced to do so.  As soon as he saw the striker intimately engaged with the cook, he retreated hastily, leaving them with a bare minimum of words, to wit: “Tl deal with you later.” He was still muttering to himself in the kitchen when Bee came down for breakfast.  “All I want in the morning is a couple of eggs and a glass of milk,” he said to her, “and what do I get? The house is cold, there’s no breakfast, and I find the cook and striker fornicating in the basement.”  “You find them what!” exclaimed Bee, as much astonished to hear him mention it as she was to learn that they were doing it  “Fornicating!” he repeated. “I can’t get any breakfast around here because of the goddamned fornication!”  From the kitchen door came the question, “What's fornication?” and the two parents turned to find all three of their children listening.  Fornication was an offense Arnold found too embarrassing to  tolerate. He dismissed both of the fornicators, but he soon realized it wouldn't be easy to replace the cook, because good ones were hard to find on the base. While he launched his search, Bee had to fill in, and after eating her cooking for just a short time, he hastened in his efforts to get someone else. When he revealed his problem to several Cavalry  Thomas M. Coffey * 130  might be doing or wherever they might be playing, they had to be back home, with at least one foot on the steps of the front porch, within fifteen minutes after the retreat gun sounded on the base. If not, they were solidly spanked despite Bee’s continuing disapproval.'*  “You strike that child and I’m leaving!” she would cry, whereupon he would quickly administer another whop, but she would never get around to leaving. Bruce grew to hate the odor of Dyanshine because when his father sp