general himself, Harry New, told him that whatever happened, come rain, sleet, snow, or high wind, the president's mail had to get through.  It was an assignment that required some imaginative thought because, as Arnold knew, the weather in the Black Hills was often treacherous. He was certain that on some days it would be either impossible or too dangerous to fly. If he didn't want any of his pilots killed, what was he to do?  The only solution he could devise would take some arranging and if  it was discovered the consequences would be serious, but it was a chance he would have to take. He assigned reliable men to the mail-lift operation and instructed them carefully. On each flight they divided the presidential mail into two packages. When these pac kages reached Rapid City, one of them would be held back by the ground crew so they would have something to deliver on the following mail day even if it was impossible to fly that day. This meant the president got half of his mail late, but since Coolidge, during his five years in office, was hardly ever  officers at the mess son, Theodore R. ) general), mentione: forced to give up Cavalry soldier and  When Arnold couple who workec Cheatham?”  “Yes,” he said  “Nothing's wrc over her face. “Ma;  The arrival of in the Arnold hous her, a tall, stately w poised assurance th long before she ber the cook, she disper to children and gr  Bruce, who wa Riley, soon began t the phonetic teach from the flash-carc When school closec mentioning his def in alarm, rushed « hoping they would real Infantry and | reading about a bu he could be watcl horse.  Having failed i Bee said to Hap on want to,”  She knew her magic word. As se was a word that m;  “The hell you: book.”  He stared ope then grabbed the b  Thomas M. Coffey * 1534  “nt mail, no one knew the difference. At least he  Spee seek setae ar Seed a  known to get any u  Thomas M. Coffey * 134  known to get any urgent mail, no one knew the difference. At least he  Thomas M. Coff