k was the graduation ride. Proud relatives, friends, and sweethearts of the cadets filled the riding hall to see it. The members of the exhibition team stood at attention beside their horses in the corridor leading from the stable to the hall. In only a few minutes they would ride their handsome mounts into the hall, circle the arena, and begin their precise, difficult program. But first there was one more 1, the  short ceremony to endure—an inspection by Capt. F. C. Marshal senior Cavalry instructor, who was also a stickler for proper form. As he walked at his slow, stiff, erect pace along the line of cadets and horses, he noticed a great lump in the cheek of Cadet Arnold, who was otherwise impeccable in uniform and bearing:  The captain stopped and took a closer look at him. “Mr. Arnold,” he said (cadets and lieutenants were so addressed in those days), “you have a chew of tobacco in your mouth, Spit it out, sir.”  Arnold, after first obeying the order, could not resist what he thought would be taken as a joking remark. “Sir, good cavalrymen chewed tobacco.”  Perhaps another Cavalry officer might have smiled and moved on, but not Captain Marshall. “Mr. Arnold,” he said, “you're impertinent,”  The graduation ride went off without a flaw and this whole  he said, “I thought all  minuscule incident had been all but forgotten the next day when the delinquency list (or “skin list,” as the cadets called it) came out with Arnold's name at the top. For having a “chew of tobacco in mouth at  tavalry drill” and for “impertinent reply to tactical officer when reproved for same,” he was sentenced “to be confined to area barracks and gymnasium, and to walk the area during all recreation periods until graduation,” which was still four days away.  Having spent so much of his four years at West Point walking punishment tours, Arnold was hardly surprised that he should spend his  last four days doing so. He did graduate without further incident, however, and returned home to Ardmor