he had renounced flying not t because of his love for her. And once he sr mind, he was stuck with it for the rest of  with his son's engagement to Sidney Pool's felt he had arranged it), and as near as Arnold. No one asked her to express the Arnold family—her husband and her  ction adequately.  « Pool shortly after the engagement an-  e-elect straight about one matter Betty  © be an Arnold,” she proclaimed, “you'll ch."  ch presumption. Her father had belonged ‘ore coming to America, her mother was a d herself a Quaker. She did not choose to  Thomas M. Coffey * 72  quickly how to get things done in the Army, and his combination of charm, directness, and persistence was difficult to resist. In any case, the Langley hearings gave him an opportunity to spend much of the summer just a few miles from his fiancée, and it is safe to say that Miss Bee Pool got more of his attention than Langley’s unfortunate airplane The wedding was set for September 10.  On August 16, by which time Arnold’s Infantry assignment had come through, he was back in Washington to testify—together with General Scriven, Tommy Milling, Billy Mitchell, and several others—at a hearing of the House of Representatives Military Affairs Committee on the subject of aeronautics in the Army. Mitchell spoke just before Arnold and, as was his custom, delivered a long monologue. He was more than ever enthusiastic about flying, although he still hadn't done much of it  When Arnold’s turn came, he mentioned his status immediately. “I am to be relieved the first of September and will go back to join my regiment.”’°  “At your own request?” Chairman James Hay of Virginia asked.  “Yes, sir.”  He then spoke at some length about the role of airplanes in the current Balkan war; the valiant efforts of the Signal Corps within the previous six months under Scriven to foster aviation in the Army; the high death rate among American fliers; his belief that while the airplane was invented in the United States, “then the countr