ic h the Germans were terrorizing London.” And though he didn't mention it to von Karman, he was aware that the United States at that moment was engaged in the development of an atomic weapon that, if completed on time, might be used against Japan. Never before had it been so evident that a small country with advanced technology could defeat a larger, wealthier  country that had allowed itself to become complacent, “I want you to  come to the Pentagon and gather a group of scientists who will work out  a blueprint for air research for the next twenty, thirty, perhaps fifty years,” he told von Karman.  Arnold had always entertained ambivalent feelings about scientists He didn't know their language, seemed never to be quite at ease n their  presence, and enjoyed making fun of them. In a September 12, 1944,  letter to Tooey Spaatz, he wrote “These long-haired scientists have a  hard time getting together. They are about as jealous as Brigham  Young's seventeenth and eighteenth wives were, 50 that there is a lot of  throat-cutting going on between the connected with the War Department and other branches of the govern-  ment.” But despite such remarks, Arnold never hesitated to call on fhe thought they might be useful to aviation His engagement  scientists in the various agencies  scientists of von Karman began revolutionize the Air Forces.  4 science-oriented military era which would soon    Thomas M. Coffey  Because Bee's hay fever was even more severe than usual in 1944, she and David were spending the summer at Kezar I  in Maine. Hap, with Bill and Mary Streett (Bill was back from the Pacific). drove up  Thomas M. Coffey *  Because Bee's hay fever was even more severe than usual in 1944, she and David were spending the summer at Kezar Lake in Maine. Hap, with Bill and Mary Streett (Bill was back from the Pacific), drove up there on September 10 to celebrate the Arnolds’ wedding anniversary They found Bee in better condition than they expected. Hap’s brother Cliff, wh