ing in fogs and bad weather, in blind flying and in flying under all conditions.”  Actually, only 122 of the 262 pilots who were destined to fly the mail had more than two years’ experience. Only thirty-one had more than fifty hours of night flying. Only two had as much as fifty hours of instrument time.* And only forty-eight had as much as twenty-five hours of bad-weather time. Such aviation authorities as Char les Lindbergh and Eddie Rickenbacker were predicting dire results if the Ait Corps persisted in its intentions. On the sixteenth, the day Foulois testified and  of  Thomas M. Coffey 156  wanted urgently to talk to them, They hurried back to Arnold's office and when they reached Spaatz, he told them a frightening story. President Roosevelt, convinced that the Hoover administration had made fraudulent airmail contracts with the airlines, was canceling those contracts and asking the Air Corps to take over the job of flying the airmail. Furthermore, General Foulois had assured the president that the  Air Corps was capable of handling the assignment. Arnold was to be responsible for carrying the mail in the western section of the country,  which would include the routes connecting San Diego, Los Angeles, San  Francisco, Portland, and Seattle, plus the routes between Salt Lake City  and all of those cities.  And he would be expected to start operations nine days later, on February 19.  Arnold told Spaatz he would get right to work on the job even though he knew he was flirting with disaster. As he later said, “My pilots {in the West] were mostly Reserve officers, none of whom, owing to the War Department policy of turning over Reserve officers in a squadron at the rate of 25 or 30 percent a year, had had two years’ service. Very few of the ‘regular’ civilian air mail routes had been flown over by these officers. They had none of the special airline instruments; they must fly in whatever planes we had, including trainers. There was not  especially in the case of th