s, and the Coast Artillery had each selected an ideal site, but none of these sites was near the others Arnold himself then selected a site, but no one would approve it. In the face of this deadlock, General Edwards told him to go back to Washing- ton and get it settled by the War Department  Arnold was on a ship bound for New York when, on April 6, 1917,  51 obsolete had usable own a single ve seen, an he Europe- llied planes s for almost slane useful  many, Billy awaken the yovernment y 24, 1917, ent Wilson, ents on the nited States 0 airplanes, ‘t personnel ly disclosed front. They roic efforts. eartened by orward by a The French  the White Secretary of Daniels, all tion Section slan—a bill ith the men eneral Staff ild be $639 otal of only ae. In June ad passed a onnaissance ghters) at a in excessive nd another t refused to  Thomas M. Coffey * 90  the news came that the United States had declared war on Germany. He hurried to Washington and shortly after arriving there learned he would not be returning to Panama. He didn’t mind that. He also learned he wouldn't be going to France, and this he did mind. After those four years when he was afraid to fly, he was eager to prove, against the Germans, that his courage had returned. But alas for him, he had turned up in the wrong place at the wrong time. Because of the frenzied activity that accompanied America’s entry into the war, the Signal Corps Aviation Section was desperate for qualified officers at headquarters in Washington. On April 17 he was placed on temporary duty there, and on May 25, he was put in charge of the Information Division.** He continued to ask for duty in France but nobody was listening.  On April 17, the day his orders came through detailing him to Washington, he happened to be in Philadelphia to greet Bee and the children, who had just arrived from San Diego. She was feeling somewhat better now—much better when she learned that her husband was to be stationed in Washington rather than Panama or