ich they had  to fly above 25,000 fe  . The pilot had never before used Bocing oxygen equipment, nor had he ever feathered an engine or operated the automatic pilot. The crew had never used the interphones or fired fifty-caliber machine guns.'"  Brett also sent word of another B-17, which on August 15 had attacked the German battleships Scharnhorst and Gneisenau at Brest After dropping its bombs, this plane had been attacked for a total of twenty-three minutes by two Heinkel 113s and five Messerschmitt 109s  “Approximately 20 cannon shells” hit the plane and six of them burst inside the fuselage. Several crew members were killed or wounded. The bomb-bay doors were jammed open. The left aileron was “practically shot away.” The trim tabs were shot away and the rudder was damaged Yet the plane returned to England. People would tell many similar stories about Flying Fortresses during the next four years, but this one was especially reassuring because it was the first such story  Despite Brett's encouraging report, Arnold was aware that his  Thomas M. Coffey  The memo seemed to suggest that lighter planes, but a conversation betwe General Marshall in Memphis the next sharply that, even in late 1941, the Air F more than heavy bombers.  Marshall was in Memphis observing war maneuvers. Arnold called him abo delivering dive bombers for the climax November.”  Arnold began by reminding Marsha bomber groups in the current maneuver go to the Philippines in early Decem November  “How many will you have in Noven  “We have just the two groups.”  Marshall didn’t seem to grasp the many will be left?  he asked. “We'll just have that one group in d “And at the present time you have  “Two,”  ‘ou have two of yours?”  “Two of ours, and they're not both One's equipped with light bombers b groups.”  Later in the conversation, Marshall got this straight. What you want to know and send tt  t dive bomber group to the “That's right, And be short one in ? “How’s that?”  “And be short one in Nove