sier to get it over with right si =  Sufficiently persuaded, Bruce returned home. His mother pve His father bellowed, “What the hell are you ge xing to do now? al  Nothing had changed. “I'd like to try for West Point,” Bruce said  “You can't go to West Point,” his father insisted (%  Having just been dismissed from the Naval Academy Bruce could hardly argue that. He decided to go to New York, see the Worl 1’ Tei and figure out what to do with his life. The dec ‘don came qu ‘i : fer he left Washington. He knew that each year some s sIdie mB BE through competition to attend West Point. He would enlist in the Army  and, with 4 1 luck, win one of the soldier appointments, then enter the academy whether his father liked it or not  rs were selected  hen he called home to announce proudly that he had enlisted, his  father, still angry and disappointed, said, “It better  Conga” not be the Air  Sudde: = lenly Bruce became just as angry. “I wouldn't be in your  oddamne = g red lousy outfit,” he yelled, and slammed down the receiver  A week late: = ater, his father, apparently feeling some remorse but not  quite able to unbend enouw admit it openly, sent anot officer to 7 e gh nil penly, sen er 4 h 4 h fice  talk to Bruce. “He Ss to know an or you e officer wants to know what b i h : le € for you,” the 1 You can tell b ” Bruce said  “that what I want F ; a ant him to > to leave me to hell alone.” ae  Arnold seemed to sense now that he h young man find his own way in the sense that he  ad better back off and let the world, He may also have begun to was paying a pe:  k § 4 penalty for his career, which had kept him  203 * HAP  away from his children so much of the time while they were growing up; but even if he did sense this there was very little he could do about it. His career was now taking so much of his time it separated him more than ever from his family  In the summer of 1939, he saw Lindbergh frequently. He appoint- ed him to the board on which Lindbergh had agreed to s