as  Thomas M. Coffey 194  Assistant Secretary of War Johnson, who seldom got along with Woodring but agreed with him on this issue, asked the president if he was specifically ordering them to release the plane to the French  Roosevelt said that was exactly what he wanted  Morgenthau had prevailed. Arnold realized now that his Air Corps enjoyed only a secondary place in Roosevelt's plans to build aircraft. But he did not lose sight of the fact that Roosevelt was the boss. As soon as he learned of the president's direct order, he sent a telegram to a subordi- nate in Santa Monica, instructing him to show the plane to the French  after its secret parts had been removed  None of this was as yet public knowledge, but a tragic mishap on January 23 launched an embarrassing exposure of the whole affair.” Having received Arnold’s approval, Douglas officials that day arranged a flight in the experimental bomber for a member of the French mission, Air Ministry engineer Paul Chemidlin. Douglas test pilot John W, Cable was at the controls when the plane went into an inexplicable spin, four hundred feet above the Douglas plant, and crashed into the company parking lot. Ten people on the ground were injured and nine automo- biles demolished. The pilot emerged from the plane before it crashed but hit the ground and was killed before his parachute had time to open.  M. Chemidlin was found in the wreckage of the plane with a broken leg and several lacerations but no serious injuries. Of much greater concern than his condition was the question of how he should be identified in news stories about the crash. Because of the vocal isolation- ist sentiment in the country, the visit of the French aircraft-buying mission had not been publicized. And under existing regulations, it would be difficult to explain how a representative of a foreign govern- ment had been authorized to fly in a new and secret American bomber It was decided, either by officials on the spot, or after consultation with