e drink. The general still drank only sparingly, but when he did, it was usually an Old Fashioned or some other sweet cocktail. The president, a good host, had apparently gone to the trouble of finding out Arnold's preference, but his courtesy was lost on Arnold, whose imme- diate reaction was to recall that this same man had almost refused to appoint him Air Corps chief in 1938 because of the rumor that he was a drunk  Sull eager to erase that impression, Arnold engaged in a bit of ludicrous hyperbole. “Thanks, Mr, President,” he said, “I haven't had one for about twenty years, but I assure you I'll enjoy this one with you,  tremendously.”  ction ‘iv ign h veh ont jive inh debe ott?  ra    2238 HAP  it in order to get things done. Though it was a fast-growing organization  sie REESE TERETE Fay SUS YES ie use etill ultimately  Thomas M. Coffey 223 HAP  it in order to get things done. Though it was a fast-growing organization  ie ure etill ultimate  Thomas M. Coffey 222  New York stockbroker and director of the Union Pacific Railroad, had been a naval aviator, in command of U.S. Naval Air Squadron Number One, during the First World War. He had come to Patterson’s attention because, during a Union Pacific inspection t  p in the summer of 1939, he had taken it upon himself to visit the West Coz  aircraft companies. With war looming in Europe, he wanted to know how the U.S. aircraft industry was progressing. He might also have been interested in its investment potential. A skillful and well-trained business observer, he looked at several companies and was distressed to find them far behind their British and German counterparts. For the benefit of his partners, he wrote a report of this trip. James Forrestal, one of his neighbors on Long Island and a man destined to become secretary of the navy, asked for a copy of this report, which he then showed to Patterson. As a result, Patterson called L  »vett to Washington and Stimson hired him.*  Lovett and Arnold got along well