case of Lt. Frank M. Kennedy, whom Beck was teaching to fly the Curtiss plane. In February at Augusta, Kennedy suffered a crash during which his head plowed a five-inch-deep furrow in the ground. His life was saved only because he was wearing a special new leather helmet, and perhaps also because the ground had been softened by the torrential rains, Kennedy recovered from his injuries and flew in balloons during World War I, but never again piloted an airplane.  In April 1912, the Signal Corps flying school moved back to Maryland and Arnold, after a short visit to Fort Leavenworth, followed his colleagues to College Park on May 12. On the first of June he broke his own altitude record by flying a Burgess-Wright airplane (built by the Burgess Company of Marblehead, Massachusetts, under license to use the Wright patents) to the astonishing height of 6,540 feet, an accom-  plishment that received nationwide publicity  Thomas M. Coffey # 52  a modern viewer because it included nomenclature now so obvious one can hardly imagine that as recently as 1911 it had to be explained: “Propellor,” for instance; “Upper right wing,” “Upper left wing,” levator,” and “Rudder.” Beginning with  “Engine section,” “Radiator,” these photographs, Arnold and Milling developed, and then passed on to their mechanics, the Army’s first system of aircraft nomenclature and maintenance  Meanwhile a former Army officer named Riley E. Scout arrived on the scene with an invention he called a “bomb-dropper.” It was the first bombsight, complete with a telescope to measure airspeed and a table to calculate corrections for wind direction and altitude, Scott worked his device by lying flat beside it on the lower wing and sighting through its telescope. Though Arnold wanted to help him test it, his weight at the time—a trim 160 pounds—was too much for the plane when it was also carrying Scott and his bombsight; it simply wouldn't get off the ground. Arnold agreed, though, that with the 125-pound Milling a