ome airplanes, and his first airdromes were nearing completion  At an air ministry conference on the twenty-cighth, Arnold had more trouble with the U.S. Navy than with the British. His friend Towers, whom he had genuinely liked ever since they were fellow students at the Wright brothers’ flying school, annoyed him during this meeting when he said the Navy could send no help for the British coastal command. The Navy had “too many other activities at home,” he said. And when the question of providing more transport planes arose, he suggested that Arnold stop B-17 production at the Douglas Long Beach plant and build cargo planes instead. When one of Portal’s aides asked him what the Navy was willing to give up to help the British, he said, ‘Nothing the Navy could give up would help.” Arnold was furious at this. It seemed to him that the Army Air Forces “was expected to give everything to everybody.” From then on, he decided, he would “take a much more hard-boiled attitude  While he was having his troubles with Towers, the British were preparing to do a little more work on him. Because he was the giver and they were very conscious of being the receivers, they could hardly be ungracious. But Portal did point out that it would be a few months at best before the Eighth Air Force ¢  uld operate against Germany, whereas he had trained pilots who could fly all available American bombers immediately, If Arnold would send the heavy bombers to the R.A.F., he would be willing, he said, to give them back as soon as American units were ready for them. It sounded like a reasonable proposal, but Arnold resisted it when he realized his units could never get ready if they had no airplanes  He was also invited to visit the headquarters of the British bomber  command, which was now under the direction of Air Marshal Harris,  HAP  whom Arnold had known in Washington. Harris had already construct-  ed what he called his “conversion room,” in which there were three  Thomas M. Coffey 274  T