He could, of course, name such installations as Forts Wingate, Custer, Apache, Crook, and Riley, since they were Cavalry stations. Infantry! They constituted the bulk of the Army. Surely he could think of a few of their stations. Yet his Cavalry-laden mind refused to come forth with any. Where was it the secretary of war had gone? To the Philippines? Maybe if he could be sent there and get to talk to him, a transfer to the Cavalry would still be possible.  “I would like,” he blurted out, “to go to the Philippines,”  The adjutant general, who had clung steadfastly to his duty despite the implied pressure of a visit from two such powerful politicians, must have been pleased by this sudden invitation to send the obstreperous Mr. Arnold so f remarkable forbearance, he said, “I think that can be arranged.” Then  ar away. Showing what Arnold later described as  with a nod he quickly dismissed the young man before he had time to change his mind.  ~ td  < CHAPTER 3 5)  a Pe American Army in the early part of this century maintained such a leisurely pace that it was not until September 14, 190  , that Arnold and several other recently graduated second lieutenants en route to the Philippines were required to report at their port of embarkation, San Francisco. And when they arrived there, they found themselves too early. No transport vessels would be going to Manila until November.  “Meanwhile you will be on duty here,” the adjutant general at the Presidio informed them. Then he added with a smile, “Your duties will consist of having a good time in San Francisco and letting me know your address. Good day, gendemen.”*  Though San Francisco in 1907, still recovering from the earthquake and fire of 1906, looked ramshackle and half-built, and though it was not the wide-open city it is today, it had enough attractions to keep a young second lieutenant entertained. Its restaurants were already fa- mous. One could sail on the bay or take excursions into the surrounding countryside. A