s the only large, liquid-cooled engine available in the United States, and since they weren’t likely to have any competition in the near future, the people at Allison had to be coddled, wheedled, threatened, and inspired to do better work and do it faster. Doolittle was the ideal man for it and he did the best he could. While he was at Allison, he also conducted instrument-flying experiments with the P-40, which resulted in a whole new set of training procedures for bad-weather flying. There were few things connected with ait planes that Doolittle couldn’t do, but teaching the auto-makers to build planes was one of them, and some problems were never solved. Arnold’s warning that auto-builders didn't  make good plane-builders would eventually prove to be quite accurate.  Despite Arnold’s endless prodding of the plane-makers, he still had, in the spring of 1941, an Air Corps of only nine operational groups —fewer than five hundred planes in total. And he was still accusing President Roosevelt of sending too many planes to England, On March  10 he found out that the president had “objected very strenuously” to a  Thomas M, Coffey +  You never thought the things he asked you for were possible, but then you did them.’  Col. K. B. Wolfe, one of Arnold's top production engineers, was often amazed at the way he played the manufacturers against the training commanders, “He would say to a manufacturer, ‘Damn it, you told me you were going to have [so many] fighters this month. Now I’ve  got the [pilot  rained and where the hell are the fighters?”  ‘Then he would get hold of a training commander and say, ‘Look, you've got to have [so many] crews by [such a time] because we're going to have that many airplanes.” * He soon had people racing against each other to get the work done.  Because Boeing couldn't make enough B-17s to satisfy him, he forced Boeing to license Douglas and Lockheed to build them. Then he made Douglas and Lockheed construct new plants in which to do the buil