alked about the appalling situation in Europe. Hitler had now signed an alliance with Italy and a ten-year  nonagression pact with Russia And of more immediate concern, he had  issued an ultimatum to Poland that was ac tually a demand that the Poles  h Arnold and Lindbergh didn't yet know it  completely surrender, Thoug the Polish government, that evening, had  as they sat down to dinner, rejected Hitler's demand. The next morning at dawn, the German army  invaded Poland  Thomas M. Coffey 2  >  sent to a branch of the service his father loathed. If he was not welcome in his father’s branch, it must mean that, for some reason, his father was rejecting him.  As he prepared to leave the Naval Academy, depressed and miserable, he wasn’t sure what to think of himself. It seemed that whenever he had failed at something in the past, his father had said not “I'm sorry,” but “What the hell are you going to do now?” Less than cager to hear that again, Bruce decided not to return to Washington  His father, anticipating this possibility, sent an aide to see him. ‘I i aide, a captain, was sympathetic to the young man because he too had once left the Naval Academy under similar circumstances. “I'll es  you're getting ready to sign onto a ship,” he said to Bruce. “That's what I almost did.”  Bruce admitted it was exactly what he intended.  “You can do that if you wish,” the captain said, “but you've got to face the old man sometime. It’s easier to get it over with right sh =  Sufficiently persuaded, Bruce returned home. His mother : ed His father bellowed, “What the hell are you gx xing to do now? om  Nothing had changed. “I'd like to try for West Point,” Bruce said  You can't go to West Point,” his father insisted ee  Having just been dismissed from the Naval Academy, Bruce could hardly argue that. He decided to go to New York, see the World's FE  and her figure out what to do with his life. The decision came quickly after  - left Washington. He knew that each year some soldie  t