y 1943. But Arnold tacitly admitted later that he had taken the project seriously at the time, which would seem to indicate that Marshall did likewise, since they were so close. Arnold in his memoirs said that he thought in the early months of 1942 he would have enough planes by autumn to support the invasion.*” The illustrates how little the Americans knew w hen they  whole matter entered the war about the effort it would take to defeat Germany and  Japan. On April 1, the president held a secret meeting at the White House  (with all the participants coming in the back door to avoid attention) for  Thomas M. Coffey * 262  On March 16, after what he deemed sufficient reconsideration, Arnold came up with a compromise that neither he nor the Navy welcomed. “I propose to recommend the establishment of a Coastal Command, within the Army Air Corps [sic], which will have for its purpose operations similar to the Coastal Command, Royal Air Force This organization, operating when necessary under the control of proper Naval authorities, can readily meet the requirements of convoy escort, patrolling, and protection of shipping.”  Though he didn’t like it, Arnold’s Air Forces were now in the antisubmarine business, which meant that several hundred heavy bomb- ers would have te be diverted from their primary task of attacking Germany. But at the same time, the Navy's threat to get into the air force business was at least temporarily subdued  On March 26, the Navy took operational control of the Air Forces antisubmarine units. Within the next two years, the Air Forces patrol sighted 241 German U-boats and was able to attack 147 of them. This  operation was so successful that Arnold never did manage to get out of the antisubmarine business.  A more serious problem with the Navy arose over the question of where to send aircraft as they became available, But this problem was not limited to the Navy, The demand for more air strength was now so universal in all theaters of war that it