. To help preserve Lindbergh's privacy, the manager had closed the room to everyone else. For three hours Arnold listened while Lindbergh talked about the strength of Hitler's air force and what American airmen would have to face if the country were to go to war against Germany  “Lindbergh gave me,” Arnold later recalled, “the most accurate picture of the Luftwaffe, its equipment, leaders, apparent plans, training methods, and present defects that I had so far received . Lindbergh felt that Hitler held the destruction of any major city on the continent, or in Britain, in his hands.”  When they left the hotel, they walked over to the Plain, where the Army baseball team was playing Syracuse, and sat down in the grand- stand. “For the rest of the afternoon,” Arnold recalled, “while he continued to tell us about Hitler's air force, we sat unnoticed in the grandstand, surrounded by rooting cadets, and right behind a row of reporters from the New York papers, which were trying desperately to locate Lindbergh all over the East.”  Later in the afternoon, the Arnolds introduced Lindbergh to their son Hank, but aside from Hank, only two cadets even noticed that the lanky, curly-haired man with the visiting general was the famous tantic flier. Before Lindbergh’s departure, Arnold asked him to serve on a board that would determine what kinds of planes the Air Corps should try to procure during the next five years. Lindbergh agreed to do so, and for the next two years, he worked with Arnold, supplying the Air Corps with valuable information about E uropean, and especially German, aircraft. Arnold's use of Lindbergh's knowledge, ata  trans-/  time when the Air Corps had no intelligenc ¢-gathering agency, proved enormously advantageous in the effort to improve American planes. But it did not help Arnold in his relations with President Roosevelt, who distrusted Lindbergh, first of all, because the man had accepted a medal from Goering, and second, because he soon became a leader of