euvers, one of which was supposed to go to the Philippines in early December, making it unavailable in November  “How many will you have in November?” Marshall asked.  “We have just the two groups.”  Marshall didn't seem to grasp the problem. “With one short, how many will be left? sked.  “We'll just have that one group in the maneuvers.”  he  “And at the present time you have how many?”  “Two.”  “You have two of yours?”  “Two of ours, and they're not both equipped with dive bombers  One's equipped with light bombers but they're both dive bomber groups.”  Later in the conversation, Marshall said, “Now let me see if I have got this straight. What you want to know is whether we should go ahead and send that dive bomber group to the Philippines.”  “That's right, And be short one in November.”  “How’s that?”  “And be short one in November.”  “When does it sail?”  “The first of December.”  “It doesn’t sail until the first of December?”  “Yes sir.”  Marshall laughed. “Why'd you haye to call me this afternoon?”  “Because I have to make the decision now,” Arnold explained “They'll have to be called away from maneuvers on September thirtieth if they go to the Philippines. They'll have to pack up their equipment and pack up their planes.”  Marshall could hardly gainsay that but he still didn’t quite under- stand Arnold's dilemma. “We will have one group, anyway, won't we?”  239 HAP  “Not dive bombers,” Arnold said. “They'll be light bombers,”  “We won't have any dive bombers?”  “We have only one group of dive bombers.” What he was trying to convey was that the group he intended to send to the Philippines was the only dive bomber group actually equipped with dive bombers Marshall asked.  “That's the only one we have right now.”  “That's the only one in prospect?  “Well, I know it’s the only one we have right now, but . “There won't be any more deliveries,” Arnold announced  “No more deliveries?”  “For some time.  But his lack of dive bombers did not concern Arnold as much as h