oduction the war required. He ended their conversation by demanding that de Seversky divorce himself from the operation of the company and replace himself with a man whom Arnold nominated. In effect, Arnold was demanding that de Seversky fire himself from his own company if he wanted the company to do business with the Air Forces. De Seversky ultimately capitulated and the output of P-47s began to climb.  Arnold and the Army Air Forces gained a measure of new prestige on February 9, 1942, when he took his place as a member at the first formal meeting of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, a body of four men —Admirals William D, Leahy and Ernest King, Generals Marshall and Arnold—which thereafter constituted the American High Command The concept of the Joint Chiefs was born at the Argentia Conference in August 1941, when the Americans felt the need for an agency to parallel  the British command structure. President Roosevelt had invited Arnold  Thomas M. Coffey * 258  annoyed at this because he thought de Seversky was making speeches when, as Republic's chief operating officer, he should be making airplanes. While he was busy setting his speed records in flight, Repub- lic's output of P-47s was lagging behind Arnold's expectations.  Arnold did not keep his dissatisfaction to himself. As he explained to his son Bruce, de Seversky had made a beautiful airplane; but the Air  Forces didn't need an airplane, it needed five thousand of them, and de  Seversky didn't seem able to turn them out in that kind of quantity Before long, Arnold’s feelings became known in the aircraft industry. De Seversky, who happened to be in California when someone told him what Arnold was saying, went to see Donald Douglas in Santa Monica. He wanted to know why Arnold was cutting him out of the war program  “Well, Sasha, I guess you know why,” Douglas said. “He's peeved at you because he hasn't thought you were paying attention to your business.”  De Seversky did not deny that there might be something t