d need bases for their B-29 strikes against Japan. Until such island bases were available, he would pursue his intention of hitting Japan from China, but if he could establish bases on Saipan, Tinian, or Guam, for  instance, he would eliminate the almost insurmountable supply problem  Thomas M. Coffey * 346  He insisted that the 20th’s commander, K. B. Wolfe, get on with the bombing of Japan, and he wanted the first raid against the mainland to coincide with the invasion of Saipan, which the Navy was planning for mid-June.*' Because of the gas shortage at the China bases, Wolfe doubted he could make that deadline, but he agreed to try.  In early June, Arnold was also aware of the big event scheduled to begin the sixth on the Normandy beaches, He couldn't be there for that, but the Combined Chiefs of Staff had scheduled a meeting in London on June 10, and he intended to go to that.  On the seventh, the day after the Normandy invasion, he flew back into Washington and attended a formal dinner at the White House, but without Bee. On the eighth, he and George Marshall, with their aides, boarded a C-54 for London. This was the first chance the two generals had had in more than a month to exchange confidences, and they took advantage of it for several hours on their way to England. In Arnold's words, they talked about everything “from mice and men to cabbages and kings.”  Their personal relationship had deepened continuously during the last five years, Though Marshall outranked Arnold, Laurence Kuter noticed he never “pulled his rank” on him. In air matters, he had given Arnold virtual autonomy. Arnold, for his part, had developed such respect for Marshall that he once told Ira Eaker,  f George Marshall  ever took a position contrary to mine, I would know I was wrong  Robert Lovett felt that Arnold recognized in Marshall “one of the truly great figures that this country has produced,” and that Marshall recognized in Arnold “a dedicated officer in a field in which he, Gene