wanted at least to be able to say he had been there. On the tenth, he arranged to fly over the lines, but the weather was so foul that all planes were grounded. In his diary he wrote: “It looks as if I will go down in history as a desk soldier.”  On November 11, a British colonel agreed to drive him to the front They headed east at 9:00 a.m. and passed through the ruins of Verdun to the Argonne Forest, where they encountered the 103rd U.S. Infantry Hap Arnold was at the front at last, right in the midst of the fighting, with guns exploding all around him—but the guns were firing in celebration, rather than anger. The hour of the cease-fire, 11:00 a.m., had arrived. Arnold has just missed World War |  Thomas M. Coffey * 94  advantage he hadn't counted on—mobility. He was now high enough in the Air Service to go where he pleased as long as he could justify it. There was only one place he wanted to go, and finally, in September 1918, he came up with a good enough excuse.  \ year earlier, in the fall of 1917, the Air Service, working with the Sperry Company and Charles F Kettering's Delco Corporation, had invented and successfully tested two pilotless airplanes. Under Ketter- ing’s ingenious direction, these were soon converted into flying bombs, thereafter called “bugs,” which were, in effect, the forerunners of the German World War II buzz bombs. Empty, the bug weighed only 300 pounds, but it could carry a 300-pound bomb load a significant distance across enemy lines. It would be cheap to manufacture and it was easy to launch from a simple track. Though early tests had gone awry, its development was far enough along, in the summer of 1918, to justify telling Pershing about its availability  In September, when Pershing informed Washington that he was interested in the bug, Arnold realized he had just received his ticket to France. Instead of sending someone else, he would go himself and brief the Supreme American Commander about the promising new inven- tion. His third