aid at that historic September 28 meeting, or that he had decided to pay no attention to Roosevelt's orders, or that he assumed the money for Roosevelt's air force would come not from the Army budget but directly from the U.S. Treasury  Oddly enough, the latter would not have been a farfetched assump- tion. President Roosevelt's perception of Hitler's intentions, and the dire consequences to America if Hitler were to conquer Europe, had brought him to the conviction that the United States must find ways to intervene against German aggression. But with American isolationist sentiment so strong, especially in the western part of the country, it would have been politically dangerous for him to declare openly for intervention. If he wanted to help Hitler's potential enemies he would have to do so by subtlety and subterfuge  There was, it seems in retrospect, a certain degree of subterfuge in  the initial aircraft production program he had proposed. It was not  186  187  HAP  Sd é 1 Xs  A fier he took over as chief of the Air Corps, Hap Arnold could  understand why his predecessor, Oscar Westover, had spent so  much of his time away from Washington. The responsibility of running  even the skeleton corps then in existence was enough to make any man  want to get out of town. And the newly revealed possibility of building the corps into a real air force with the support of Roosevelt's urgent enthusiasm was bound to complicate the job rather than simplify it. The likelihood of large appropriations for the anticipated expansion soon at-  tracted an endless number of government agencies—all of them, ez  ger telling him how  for a piece of what Arnold called “the Air Corps pie, much they loved the corps and how essential they were to its welfare.  But before there were any tangible signs of a feast, there was a  surprising sign of continuing hunger. On October 5, 1938, the adjutant general sent Arnold a War Department budget memorandum which said “4-engine bombers will not be i