e skills needed to produce such a complex machine were in short But the basic problems still resided in the mac hine itself. Every slane has bugs. This one had more than usual, first, because it vig and had so many revolutionary features; second, because it eloped under wartime pressure and many of its component thich in peacetime would have been subjec ted separately to  h testing, were now being tested on the airplane.  » result of all this was that in January 1944, ninety-seven B-29s ae off the assembly lines but only sixteen of them were flyable 2 shortage of planes had delayed the training of their crews. Saunders, now back from the Pacific and promoted to brigadier  bilP Ten 19  ince the American entry into the war, Hap Arnold had been Scan on the B-29 Superfortress to play the major Air Forces role in the defeat of Japan. He hoped, in fact, that by itself it would force Japan's surrender. An aircraft half again as large as any heavy bomber then in operation, the B-29 could carry twice the weight a B-17 could, and carry it twice as far. Its wingspan was 141 feet, its fuselage 99 feet long, and it stood 28 feet, almost three stories, high. Thanks to Arnold's persuasion of the president and the Congress, the U.S. government had already spent more than $1 billion on it before the end of 1943 and was destined to spend $3 billion on it before the end of the war, But the project was in deep trouble as 1944 began, and so, therefore, was Arnold, who had bet so heavily on it  The aircraft was still plagued by engine problems. The new, 2,200-horsepower Wright Duplex Cyclone that propelled it had been subjected to 2,000 engineering changes but it continued to overheat. Since the engine fire that caused the fatal crash of test pilot Eddie Allen in February 194  3, several other B-29 engines had caught fire, though few fatalities had resulted. In addition, the fire-control and pressuriza- tion systems weren't yet functioning reliably, One man had been blown out of a gun bl