r office and all those details. I leave that up to you. But remember that you don’t report through anybody else. You report to me directly. . . . Now drop whatever else you've been doing and go to work on this.”  When Cabell and Norstad went to work they were still bewildered by their directive, but they made one important determination between themselves, “We were going to work with the staff and not against the staff. We would be helpless otherwise.”  Every morning they made their rounds of the various departments within Arnold’s office: they were so often together that Arnold's ry, Suzy Adkins, began calling them “the twins.” There was suspicion among staff members at first. Some people called the two men “the Gestapo.” Others called them “the kibitzers.” Orvil Anderson in the plans section, who never thought very highly of the advisory council, called them “the kids. work, found them useful.  “What I want you to do is sit down and think,” he told them. “ Think of the problems confronting us. Bring in new ideas. If you bring in one new idea every two or three days, I'll be satisfied.” He apparently was satisfied. Though he kept rotating the personnel, sometimes enlarging  secret  7 But Arnold, who was now almost swamped with  the group to five members, sometimes ¢ ontracting it to two or three, he maintained the advisory council for the next four years, and out of it came a succession of bright young officers, most of whom ac hieved three or four stars before they ended their careers.  All these men had one thing in common—they were quick and adaptable. They had to be in order to accustom themselves to Arnold's helter-skelter administrative methods. After the war began, he more than ever lacked the patience to restrict himself to the normal chain-of- command method of doing things. If he wanted something done, he wanted it done immediately. But his office was now a large organization with hundreds of officers and civil servants in a bewildering maze of branches a