iminated and Arnold, on July 27, 1903, one month after his seventeenth birthday, found himself, to his bewilder- ment, in a plebe's uniform at West Point.  It was then that he first demonstrated the adaptability that was to become an extremely useful characteristic throughout his military career, As one of the youngest members of the plebe class (many candidates at that time prepared themselves by taking a year or two of college work elsewhere), he was confronted by a way of life that differed vastly from all of his previous experience. For a boy barely seventeen who had seldom spent a night away from his mother, the plebe routine at West Point in 1903 could be a formidable test of endurance, tenacity, and resilience.  When Arnold arrived (as one of twenty-five delayed applicants who were called “Juliettes” because they reported in July), he found the academy compound almost deserted.’ The bulk of the cadet corps was at summer encampment,  kind of tent city on the academy reservation  to the east of the tactical field. Only a skeleton force of tactical officers, enlisted men, and upperclassmen was on hand to greet the twenty-five new “beasts,” as plebes were called. A cadet corporal (a yearling, or third classman, who had been a plebe himself just a month earlier) lined them up in a small squad, then barked at them to button their coats, Straighten their ties, stand erect, get their shoulders back, drag in their chins  Singling out one man after another, he would say, “What's your name, mister?"  17 » HAP  “Shaughnessy.”  “Shaughnessy what, mister? Shaughnessy Smith? Or Shaughnessy, sir?”  When that man had learned his lesson, the cadet corporal would move on to another. “Where are you from, mister?”  “Pennsylvania.”  “Pennsylvania what, mister? Pennsylvania Dutch? Or Pennsylvania, sir? Now where are you from?”  When they finally learned to say “sir,” they were marched off to the cadet store, where enlisted clerks, after looking down their noses just cynically enoug