sirens  : a The guns barked, the 2ombs began to burst, and the fires began to erupt. He  his first German air raid  was experiencing  Hurrying to the hotel, he went up onto the roof with Quesada to  watch the attack and the defense.  - The sound of the bursts came closer and close: 1 oe - er,” as he described it, “and the sky grew red beyond the city—flats ar r . flats and warehouses were burning. The German airplanes  seemed t ce ecm to be concentrating on the center of London. The antiaircraft  guns in Regent's Park opened fire with ¢ ar-splitting cracks. The German  planes were soon direc  y overhead. The noise was deafening with the  f firing of guns ” «  g : i : and the bombs dropping—and then, almost as quickly as ud had started, the noise rapidly receded and  leaving the sky bright from the fires.”  the  all was silent again  At midnight, a new batch of  Cem ls li si it ilvnltet  ual ia eid fern hd  dia ava blonpenate oo fy utes ot pp  por ns att hl gn  u yl et dish pd ction el a tilly  ig lt eg  venga  Cul ial aoa ex dd ist ya  Cai fa (ih  hua de on bila sella noio swale da shah  ated gw cd i gana  stl nay ingulnya ait  allele Jqvet ald ot  pl veils aaa Aantal Veto nb,  sls x ye  vl i ce 4  at sl ane pata il mL vl ve typo ie fad avn  gute om  \ ct  foxniplandiniy nts  uit ih’  wail i tl} equ wt ld ee  ily  (ido Ma lll Ginnie  abl llc yo bc  ais at  aie oe it  la  el lg na cf afte yo cy  f rH (nh  fo hte  231 HAP  at the Fighter Command was really fighting, but that the imand under Peirse was pathetic. And he didn’t know what it British research and development. He was taken aback ‘nry Tizard, Britain’s science coordinator, told him that airplanes and some of the engines the United States was might be thrown into the scrap heap.” Was that just sour necessarily. In contrast to what America was building, Sir d Arnold the engineering plans for a plane currently being y the British—a fighter plane that didn’t even have a was powered by something called jet propul