ld that the British would be able to do very little against the Germans in 1941 or 1942; that the Battle of the North Adantic could and “must” be won by American aid; and that the United States should send long-range bombers as quickly as possible. “England may not always win battles,” he said in the best British schoolboy tradition, “but always wins wars.  After dinner Churchill engaged in a series of quips against the Royal Air Force, which hadn't been damaging the Germans enough to  satisfy him, but Portal answered him so sharply that Arnold soon came to consider him (as did n British Chiefs of Staff.”  ny other people) “one of the most brilliant of the  ) 21. Beave On April 21, Beaverbrook invited Arnold to dinner and posed for im a sobering question; “What would you do if Churchill were hung  and the rest of us were in hiding in Scotland or being run down by the  Gi ?W ermans? What would the people in America do? We are up against the  mightiest army the world has ever seen.”  The consensus of the people at Beaverbrook's dinner was that  “Germz y > ermany could establish a bridgehead in England any time she was  willing ake the J g to make the sacrifice It was not a question of whether [the  ermans] could make the attack but whether the British could keep them from extending the bridgeheads.” By this time, Arnold was again less than sanguine about England’s  chance ) nees of survival. Though the men he met seemed determined to fight  ‘o the end, a ¢ ain pessimism pervaded most conversations. Were the Br si g c 4 itish simply painting the bleakes picture in the hope of getting the  most help? That possibility occurred to Arnold but he discounted it The  con neme antry seemed to him in desperate straits. On the debris-strewn street pets  ot b re f bomb-battered London pe ple move ar ith solemn faces.  The one thing : ng that gave Arnold some encouragement was the British  Air Defense, commanded by Air Marshal Sir Sholto Dc suglas. It seemed  21 HAP  to Arnold tha