'Donnell, a one-time West Point football hero (and teammate of Blondie Saunders), who had distinguished himself as a B-17 com- mander in the Pacific and was now a member of Arnold's council, went to England to find out what could be done for the Eighth Air Force. On his return, he wrote a report, dated June 12 and entitled “Ineffective Fighter Support to Bombardment in the U.K.” It seemed to him the fighters were doing almost nothing to protect the bombers jan  If the P-47 airp! on fairly deep pene  ne does not actually have the ability to escort tit  tions, we have been badly £  led and our planning is extremely faulty The large number of fighters we have allocated to the U.K. are not paying their way if their participa tion in the bomber offensive comprises escort a  ‘oss the Channel only. This in effect simply insures the bombers’ safe delivery into the  hands of the wolves  Arnold did not dispute either O'Donnell’s or Lovett’s conclusions,  but neither did he turn his full energy to the solution of the fighter problem. The fighter was essentially a defensive weapon, and Arnold’s uit!  mind was always on the offensive. He wanted to strike damaging blows to  Thomas M. Coffey * 316  1 am willing to do anything possible to build up your forces but you must play your part. My wire was sent to you to get you to toughen up—to can these fellows who cannot produce—to put in youngsters who can carry the ball You have to be tough to handle the  situation  On June 28 Arnold sent Eaker another cable blaming him for being aker exploded in a  so slow to fire his fighter commander. The next day, five-page letter to his old friend. He hadn't relieved his bomber and fighter commanders earlier, he said, because he didn’t have proper replacements. Now he had found the men he wanted. Brig Gen. Fred L. Anderson would be the new bomber commander and Maj. Gen. William Kepner would be the fighter commander. For air service commander, he would be glad to have Hugh Knerr. (It proved to be