ed with horses and invited to join the Hunt Club. Suddenly Fort Riley didn’t look so bad after all  The squadron Arnold commanded was equipped with five DH-4s, now pitifully obsolete, and eight officers to fly them, plus eight or ten equally obsolete Jennys for training reserve officers in summer camps. With this tiny unit he was supposed to furnish aerial observation for all the Cavalry and Infantry outfits in the Seventh Corps Area, which included seven midwestern states. He was also expected to be the senior air instructor at the Fort Riley Cavalry School, through which almost all the promising Cavalry officers had to pass on their way to the higher ranks. Lacking the planes and men to perform these functions, Arnold was in an excellent position to sit out his exile doing nothing, but within a short time, he seems to have forgotten he was in exile. He began to like Fort Riley. He saw there a chance to deliver the air-power message to the very men the air-power advocates needed to reach but had not been reaching—future ground force generals.  Shortly after his arrival he managed to scrounge several more planes, newer and better than any in the squadron. Then he sold General Booth on the idea that all these officers studying at the Cavalry School should take indoctrination courses in aerial observation, which would include actual flight practice, so they would understand how useful the airplane could be to ground forces. Booth was so enthusiastic he made the course  a part of the school curriculum  129 * HAP  One night when the entire family was asleep (Arnold usually retired early because he arose early) the telephone rang. The house had only one phone and it was downstairs. Arnold, stumbling down to it in the dark, banged his toe on a newel post. As usual, his anger flared, and he was hopping from foot to foot, cussing himself and the newel post, when he picked up the receiver.  On the other end was Juan Trippe in New York, the prime mover in the formation of Pan