ina. A letter Arnold wrote to him in Tucson on July 13  Thomas M. Coffey 278  thirty-three planes departing from North Africa Even that many bombers could place more than three tons of bombs on each of the eleven prime targets—but only if those targets were easy to see. Anderson stipulated that the mission should not be staged unless the day was absolutely clear  Despite this, Halverson took off with only thirteen planes on a doudy day and bombed through an overcast. The mission did more damage to the prospects of daylight bombing than it did to the Ploesti refineries."*  In June, an argument developed between MacArthur and the Navy, one that would eventually affect Arnold and the Air Forces. Shortly after Midway, MacArthur, as supreme commander in the Southwest Pacific, proposed that he capture Rabaul with the use of one amphibious division (presumably Marines), a Navy task force including two carriers, and a large force of land-based bombers. On June 11, King told Marshall the Navy was already planning such an operation, using MacArthur's troops as a backup force; and on the twenty-fifth, he told Marshall that the Navy's broad strategy was a northwesterly advance through the Solomons. Marshall liked this idea but proposed MacArthur rather than Nimitz as its commander."* The Navy was not enthusiastic about letting MacArthur command anything. Three days later MacArthur warned Marshall that the Navy intended to assume complete control in the Pacific, and that he should beware of King Finally Marshall settled this unseemly squabbling by deciding that the Navy would invade Guadalcanal and Tulagi  MacArthur was not an easy man with whom to argue. One of Arnold's old colleagues, George Brett, had been finding that out since March, when Arnold made him Southwest Pacific air commander, The MacArthur-Brett bickering became so serious that Marshall sent an Air Forces colonel on his staff, Samuel E. Anderson, to find out what was happening between them. When Anderson returned