ecedent, limited priorities, competition with other elements of the war effort, ignorance about aircraft in the auto industry, which undertook to build most of the planes, and other factors, political and military, the American Army air arm never did become an effective fighting force during the First World War. And this was unfortunate because in the climactic months of the war, the Allied armies badly needed air support. Toward the end of 1917 and in early 1918, the military collapse of Russia allowed Germany to transfer hundreds of thousands of troops from the eastern to the western front for what the Kaiser envisaged as his final, victorious push. His armies were now so strong in the west that he had good reason to be confident  On March 22, 1918, he began the Somme River offensive, which very nearly split the French and British forces.  When German troops reached the Somme (on the twenty-third) they were able to bombard Paris, only seventy-five miles away, with their gigantic “Big Bertha” gun. On April 9, when the Somme offensive was finally stalled after a thirty-mile gain, the Kaiser launched the Lys offensive, followed by the Aisne, the Noyon-Montdidier, and finally the Marne. During each of these drives, and until they were finally stopped in the Second Battle of the Marne, the Germans came perilously close to breakthroughs that would have defeated the Allies. An effective Ameri- can air arm could have done much to relieve the German pressure in these offensives.  The American failure to build and send more than a token air force to Europe was a continuing source of such bitter frustration to Arnold that his characteristic impatience, with which only his close associates had been familiar, now became famous throughout the Air Service and among those civilians involved in aircraft production. From late 1917 onward he made several inspection trips to Detroit and other auto centers that were supposedly becoming aircraft centers. With each trip his impatience g