ng-range bombers, were still in control of the Army. “For the first time I can remember,” Marshall later told his biographer, Forrest C. Pogue, “Woodring, [Louis] Johnson and General Craig all acted as a unit in opposing [the] action * Marshall insisted Andrews was the man he had to have, and, “after a stormy session,” they finally agreed. Woodring, Johnson, and Craig were then learning something that many other people, including even President Roosevelt, would eventually discover  —that while George Marshall seldom raised his voice, the force of his  | he beginning of the war in Europe created immediate repercus- sions in America. Among other things, it threatened to end the shipment of all aircraft and other weapons to France and England at a time when these Allies against Hitler needed them most. The terms of the isolationist-sponsored U.S. Neutrality Act of 193:  , and subsequent  revisions of it, prevented the sale of American weapons to any bellig- erent nation, whether it was an aggressor or a victim. Though President Roosevelt had opposed the bill, he had signed it reluctantly because he feared it reflected the will of the electorate. He was such a political animal that the one thing to which he always paid attention was the mood of the voters.  In 1937, when Japan invaded China, he had dodged the provisions of the Neutrality Act and sent aid to the Chinese by calling the invasion an “incident” rather than a war. But he could hardly pretend that the conflict now engulfing Europe was simply an incident. As soon as France and England declared war on Germany, he had to acknowledge that no more planes and weapons could legally be delivered to them  To Hap Arnold this might look like an immediate blessing, because all the planes the French and British had ordered might now go to the American Air Corps by default. But it was a blessing he didn’t welcome. Contrary to the impression he had created in his contention with Morgenthau, he was in favor of sending to Fran