photographed 20,800 miles of Alaskan wilderness, including the Mount McKinley massif, from the air. They also overcame a mishap that could have proved embarrassing  One day while the crew was in Fairbanks, Arnold, Knerr, and the third flight leader, Maj. Ralph Royce, together flew three bombers down to Anchorage to inspect the airfield there. With them was a young pilot who was on the expedition as a photographic officer. Not yet having flown a B-10, he asked Arnold, while they were on the ground at Anchorage, if he could take one of the planes up for a short spin. Knerr advised against it because there were technical complications, especially in the fuel system, with which the man was not familiar. But Royce said to Arnold, “Oh, let him go. He's a good pilot.”  The man was only a few hundred feet off the ground when  Thomas M. Coffey  intense that Roosevelt felt compelled headed by former Secretary of War Ne) as the Baker Board) to investigate the condition of the Air Corps. Hap Arnol fiasco with his reputation intact beca mountainous, most difficult section o  casualties  As soon as Arnold returned to Calil City command post, he arranged a leave a fishing trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming when a telegram from Washington cau  At Air Corps headquarters, Foulo Westover, had been trying to think of pr some good publicity to counteract the riv of the airmail disaster. The first of the been delivered. A twin-engined, low-win and an airspeed of 200 miles per hour, its day. A flight of these planes to Alaska purpose of helping to map great stretch it would also be a dramatic demonstratio But no inexperienced young reserves we Hugh Knerr, an expert pilot and ing exccutive officer, and it was he who ar facilities that would be needed at all thi land, going and returning  Much of the planning had already t that Arnold should lead the flight and phone calls and telegrams. As soon as A Salt Lake City, he sent Bee home and Dayton, where the flight was being org: her from there: “Ev