y few flights over the Hump at night, but General Bissell and his plot were traveling with them, and Bissell’ pilot mile two-and-a-half-hour route,  indicated he was familiar with the which was important because they would be flying over some very: high mountains and, at intervals, ground held by the Japanese  Peterson took off and climbed through rough air to eighteen thousand feet. The first indication he might have trouble was when the navigator, who had never before flown above ten thousand feet, turned giddy from lack of oxygen and couldn't function. About the same time, Peterson realized that Bissll’s pilot didn't know much more about the Hump than he did, At the midway point, there was supposed to be a beacon; they couldn't find it. The radio operator tried to get the K’un-ming station but couldn't raise it, He could ge other Chinese stations, and Japanese stations, but not K'un-ming. As he later Jearned, there was a fifty.mile-per-hour tail wind that night, After two and a half hours, by which time they should have been near their destination, they still couldn't see it. In fac, they were beyond it,  Peterson went to the rear and told Arnold they were lost. Though ‘Arnold showed no emotion at this news, he later confided his fears to his diary: “There is always the possibilty of Jap planes being abroad, They probably have radar... Lf we turn back into the wind do we run out of gas in the mountains? Do we jump? If so, when? ... What should we take with usif we have to jump? What wll the people back home think if they hear that the Commanding General, U.S, Army Air Forces, and the Commanding General, Tenth Air Force [Bissell] and the others with us have been taken prisoner What are the best shoes to wear in hiking through the jungle?”  Meanwhile, Peterson had gone intoa square search pattern, Bissell’s pilot was not very confident of this expedient, Glancing at the altimeter,  ena failure and I want you to  id been fighting for six years, rithout getting suppl