ried about the problems of the war, that he had room in his mind for nothing else.  It was a brutally difficult time for Bee. Though proud of Hap, she was losing touch with him. Though close to the world-shaking excite- ment in which he was involved, she was not a part of it. She had lost her husband to the war. The magic that had made them celebrate their wedding date every month in the early years of their marriage was long since gone. There was no time now even for the comradeship they had enjoyed in more recent years. These losses were much more difficult for  her to absorb than anyone near her realized. While she seemed unchanged on the surface, her loneliness was beginning to bear down upon her. But even Hap didn’t seem to notice  n March 1942, at Marshall's behest, the Arnolds moved from  Bethesda to a commodious house, Quarters #8, at Fort Myer, across the Potomac in Virginia, near the Pentagon Building, which was then under construction. For wartime security reasons, Marshall wanted the top Army commanders to live within the protection of a military reservation.' He himself lived just down the street from Arnold’s new home. They often went to work together  Shortly after the Arnolds moved to Fort Myer, Lois came to visit  them. Unpredictably playful as ever, she answered the phone one  evening with the words, “Sadie’s house. Girls of your choice.” It was Marshall. “I seem to have the wrong number,” he said. Later, with a  smile, he asked Arnold, “Are we running a house of prostitution on this  base Because Marshall looked stern and didn’t do a lot of smiling, some people thought he didn’t know how. But David Arnold, who got to know him well during the Fort Myer years, found him a very warm and thoughtful man. Bee considered him one of Hap’s closest friends, It has been noted that even President Roosevelt addressed him as “General Marshall.” When Marshall and Arnold were at work together, they addressed each other formally, as General Kuter has observed. But