the development of the  with the right engines. It would be much betier if they induced to build 70,000 aircraft of the right kind in 1943 indred thousand of those they are now projecting.  st Secret” November 2 memorandum to Portal, ¢ hurchill  293,  Thomas M. Coffey *  2  few skeleton missions, was now reduced to virtual impotence, and whatever strength it had was devoted to keeping submarines away from the African landing forces. The United States had now been at war for one year, and so far nothing had happened in accordance with the original plan of exerting the major effort against the German homeland Arnold still believed in that plan, but all he could do was wait.  5  A s the year 1943 began, Hap Arnold was coming to the realization that his problems with the British were more complicated than he had imagined, partly because the British themselves were more compli-  cated than he imagined. He had watched in astonishment as Prime Minister Churchill, by diplomatic sleight of hand, turned the Bolero invasion of the continent into the Torch invasion of North Africa. And now the North African campaign was progressing so steadily that Roosevelt and Churchill had scheduled a two-power conference, to begin officially January 14, at the sunny French Moroccan port of  Jasablanca. When Arnold left Washington for this conference on January 9, with the rest of the American contingent, he didn’t know what surprises  urchill might be planning. Had he been privy to some of the communications between Churchill and his top military men in recent months, he might have been better prepared for what was to take place at Casablanca.  1942, “Note on Air Policy,” Churchill had  In an October written:  ‘The utmost pressure must be put upon the United States authorities here and in America to utilize their Fortresses and Liberators in support of our sea communications during ‘Torch At present the United States are perservering with the idea of the daylight bombing of Germany . . . wi