ps.”  Later in the conversation, Marshall got this straight. What you want to know and send tt  t dive bomber group to the “That's right, And be short one in ? “How’s that?”  “And be short one in November.” “When does it sail?”  “The first of December.”  “It doesn’t sail until the first of Dec “Yes sir.”  Marshall laughed. “Why'd you have  Because | have to make the deci “They'll have to be called away from mai if they go to the Philippines. They'll ha and pack up their planes.”  Marshall could hardly gainsay that stand Arnold's dilemma. “We will have «  Thomas M. Coffey ® 240  reputation was riding on the uncertain prospects of the B-17, He was in fact so keenly aware of it that in the lat fll of 1941 he considered deemphasiing the we of beary bombers and placing bis rele instead onan unmanned projectile plane that was an improved erion of the “bug” be had tried to promote during Word War 1. Charles  Kettering of General Motors, the creator of the original “bug,” was alo  the creator of the modernized mile, He had succesfully tested a  twodel with a two-hundred-mile range (which could be ngthened) and had proven it was now posible to contro iby radio, Arnold, disturbed by the casualties he would have if he sent huge armas of heavy  m, But ul inate he had to abandon the project, “We nally ame tothe conclusion  bombers over Germany, gave the bug serious considera  unanimous” he explained, “that e  wth the most improved type of bug the best we could do from England would be to bit Pais or some  ofthe other large cies in Fran  Belgium or Holland We could not yet atthe real heart of our enemy interior Germany isl  {nea of developing the bug, he asked for authority, and received it December 2, ogo ahead with the plans forthe superbomber, which eventually turned out to be the B29,  One weekend latin 1941, Hap, Bee, and Dave went io West Pint {ose Bruce, who was now in his second yer there Hap himself few up Friday afternoon because he coulda’ spare the time oie, but he ha