thin three days. But when the Aviation Section  ary of the }  avy Josephus Daniels, all  prepared a bill for Congress that would implement this plan—a bill calling for procurement of 22,600 airplanes of all kinds, with the men and supplies needed to keep them in the air—the Army General Staff was appalled. Pared to its minimum the estimated cost would be $639 million. Up to 1917, the General Staff had appropriated a total of only $900,000 for its air arm since the invention of the airplane. In June 1917, two months after the nation went to war, Congress had passed a bill authorizing the Signal Corps to develop 16 airplane reconnaissance squadrons and 16 balloon companies (but no bombers or fighters) at a cost of $43 million: the General Staff had considered that an excessive expenditure just for aircraft. Faced with a proposal to spend another $639 million for planes, the General Staff was so stunned it refused to  take any action whatsoever  Thomas M. Coffey * 92  Finally,  on July 4, 1917, Secretary of War Baker, ignoring the $ w Lk. eee nen hie nen hande and enhmitted the hill  Thomas M. Coffey * 92  Finally, on July 4, 1917, Secretary of War Baker, ignoring the General Staff, took the matter into his own hands and submitted the bill to Congress, which passed it in twelve days, still without the approval of the General Staff.  From that day forward, Arnold was intricately involved in all the steps necessary to convert this money into an effective air force—the development and procurement of qualified aircraft; the construction of id personnel. It was an experience he would find immensely valuable two decades later, but at the time he was not successful, Because of  schools, fields. ther facilities; and the recruitment and training of  continuing shortages, lack of precedent, limited priorities, competition with other elements of the war effort, ignorance about aircraft in the auto industry, which undertook to build most of the planes, and other factors, political