them such an earful of indignation that even he wondered later if they didn’t regr oblige my ex-Cavalry father.” After listening to him about as far as Havre de Grace, they exchanged glances, then persuaded him that he should let them go first to the War Department and join them there at ten-thirty the next morning.  When he arrived, he found that they had already talked to the adjutant general. Nevertheless, this worthy officer, Maj. Gen. Fred C. Ainsworth, in whom Arnold could see little more than unbending pomposity, began lecturing him about his station in life. He must not  t “their agreeable willingness to  forget that he was now a second lieutenant in the Army, which meant he was at the very bottom of the commissioned ranks, and that he would have to do what everyone in the Army, including himself, the adjutant general, had to do—namely to obey orders from higher authority and accept whatever assignments he was given  Arnold's reply to this must have made the adjutant general wonder what West Point was teaching its cadets about respect for rank, “No, sir!” the young graduate said, still furious at what he considered the most grievous hurt ever inflicted upon him. “No, sir! 1 am not a second lieutenant in the United States Army. I haven't accepted my commission ete:  In those days there was no legal requirement that a West Point id it was  graduate spend a specified period of time in the Army, beginning to appear that Arnold was not destined to do so, that if he didn’t get out, the adjutant general might at any moment invite him out. Before this could happen, Senator Penrose took the young man firmly by the arm, ushered him from the office, and told him to wait in the hall.  After Penrose and Wanger had spoken privately to the adjutant  Thomas M. Coffey * 26  having gone off on his daily round of house calls, when the envelope arrived from the War Department. Though he had been eagerly awaiting it, he was now, suddenly, too much a man of the world to be anythi