o him. I found out he wants to go to flight school and become a pilot. You see to it that he does.”  Arnold arrived back in Washington the afternoon of February 17 and had been home only one day when he received some chilling news from Seattle. On September 21, 1942, the first B-29 had undergone its maiden test flight with Bocing’s best test pilot, Edmund T. “Eddie” Allen at the controls, and afterward he had pronounced the plane a winner, That had been a great relief to Arnold because, on his authority, the U.S. government was spending more money on the development of the Superfortress than on any other war project except the atomic bomb. But the public knew nothing about the bomb. Everyone had read about Arnold’s huge bomber. He had bet his reputation that the plane would deliver,  Since the day of its maiden flight, however, the B-29 had exhibited so many shortcomings that it couldn't possibly be ready for combat before 1944, and some experts doubted it would ever be ready. The giant plane was designed to fly so high its cabin had to be pressurized, but in altitude tests the pressure had caused rivets to burst. When that had been corrected, the complicated new navigational system developed bugs. Then questions arose about the engine's cooling system.  On February 18, 1943, the day after Arnold returned from China, Eddie Allen took off from the Seattle airport in the second B-29 test plane. After twenty minutes in the air, he reported calmly to the tower that he needed a landing clearance because his number-one engine was on fire. Several minutes later he reported to the tower, “I’m coming in with a wing on fire.” He didn’t quite make it. With flames trailing from the stricken wing, he hit some high-tension lines and crashed into the side of a packing plant, killing himself, his crew, and several plant  employees.” When Arnold learned of the tragedy, he called ¢ the Wright Field commander, and said, “Look, we're in trouble about  sen. Oliver Echols,  this thing. W