s a secret meeting of congressmen  Arnold told the committe  in confidence, that the Air Corps was paying too much for its airplanes. The cost of 2,100 planes ordered  during the corps’ expansion program, he said, had exceeded original estimates by §  20 million. This was due, he said, not only to a rise in cost of materials, but to the large orders placed with American aircraft companies by the British and French. The American companies, he indicated, were giving preference to the orders of the Allies because they didn’t want to lose their business.  Arnold’s secret testimony soon reached the White House and President Roosevelt reacted quickly. On the afternoon of March 12, he summoned to his office the War, Navy, and Treasury secretaries and  their assistants, plus the Army and Navy air chiefs, General Arnold and Admiral John Towers.  The president began by addressing himself to the need for coopera-  tion and coordination between all the members of his government in  arranging foreig: = ranging foreign sales of aircraft and arms. He then moved on to the  need for caution in answering questions before congressional com-  snes He wasn't happy, he said, with the way some people had een testifying before Congress—in particular, some War Department people  this point he At this point he looked directly at Arnold. If certain chiefs could not  take care emselve: care of themselves as witnesses before committees, he said, it might  be: neces: i € necessary to send the second or third in command up the hill to  testify  Then, staring coldly at Arnold, he issued a threat that could not be  misunderstood. As for officers who refused to play ball” with the  there was a place where they might be sent called Guam.* Arnold had finally managed to possible superior, the commander-in-chief  administration, d and it was  infuriate his highest Though he was not fired, it  Was S€vera r is =f > ral months before the president again allowed him in the White  House.  Arnold was a man wh