Japan surrender without any more Navy help and without an invasion, immediately sent cables to  Thomas M. Coffey * 366  on the subject, in which he pointed out that air power, now vital to the nation, would depend on the peacetime existence of a strong aircraft- manufacturing industry; that a strong, American-owned international air transport system would be important because it could readily be adapted to military use; and that, therefore, the national policy should include “maximum encouragement of regulated private competitive enterprise in United States international air transport operation.” With the war almost won, he was approaching the problem on a more immediate basis in May of 1945, He had already arranged to sell A.T.C. transport planes to the airlines as soon as they were no longer needed for military use. (He thought, incidentally, that his friend, and his son's father-in-law, Donald Douglas, was planning to charge too much for converting Army transports to civilian standards.) He was encouraging the airlines to hire discharged Air Forces pilots. And he was suggesting that, to avoid delay, the airlines work out a plan to take over from the Air Forces contracts for new but unneeded transport planes. In a May  soon be returning to his civilian post as president of American Airlines,  memo to C. R. Smith (now a major general), who would  he offered advice on the best way to hasten the expansion of the entire airline industry  I am convinced that now more than ever before it is essential that the airlines have one man who can bring them together and who can think out ways and means of increasing their efficiency, taking advantage in every way possible of any aid that the government can give them  Arnold was still, at heart, as much a dreamer and builder now as he had been before the war. He had realized his own ambition and built his own edifice—the U.S. Army Air Forces. And with his health uncertain, he understood—sadly, no doubt—that he himself would do n