n, they were climinated that day. Kuter, recalling later the relationship between Marshall and Arnold, described it this way:  It defied description by usual categories. There was no back- slapping, no banter or chit-chat that you'd expect between old pals. I saw them together many times and was occasionally alone with them in Marshall's car en route to meetings. They were simply two senior officers who had known cach other for thirty years with mutual friendship. I never heard them call each other by nickname or first name  Without question, Arnold had great respect for Marshall. 1 suspect that Marshall had a lot of affection for Ar nold. I never heard  Thomas M. Coffey *« 208  such company. “What on earth are you doing with people like that?” he asked. “Using them  ” Arnold said. “Using their brains to help us develop gadgets and devices for our airplanes—gadgets and devices that are far too difficult for the Air Corps engineers to develop themselves.”  One day Arnold made a phone call to von Karman, a California Institute of Technology physicist and aeronautical engineer, and asked him to come to Washington for a visit."  “I had first met him in 1936,” von Karman recalled, “when he was commanding officer at March Field....He was a stocky, broad- shouldered West Pointer with inquisitive eyes and a blunt but acute way of asking questions.  “I met him again in 1938, shortly after he became Chief of the Army Air Corps, a famous meeting at which we discussed rockets as a means of assisting bomber takeoff. There was never any doubt in my mind that he was the greatest example of the U.S. military man—a combination of complete logic, mingled with a far-sightedness and superb dedication.”  In 1939.  U.S. Army Air Corps would never become preeminent, he said, unless it  Arnold's meeting with von Karman was more urgent. The  did some experimental work to advance the art of flight. Did von Karman have any ideas in that direction?  “In my opinion,” von Karman said, “the first