ks he had suffered. By any reasonable measurement, he was a casualty of the war  He continued to preside over the Air Forces. He directed the effort  toward unification of the armed services and parity amor  the Army, Navy, and Air Force, but other men (notably Carl Spaatz) carried the  heavy burden in that campaign. He steered the Air Forces toward a  continuing program of scientific research and technological develop- ment. He watched his staff reduce the size of the forces from 2,400,000 people and 72,000 airplanes to a half million people and 10,000 planes But he insisted that the relatively new Air Transport Command survive the demobilization. It would be needed, he said, as a link between installations around the world, and as a means of deploying troops quickly in case of an emergency.' At the same time, he suggested that surplus aircraft be melted down and the metal be salvaged. His advice about the A.T.C. prevailed but his effort to save metals was ignored During much of September, Bee was in California, which left him alone in Washington. He had now shortened his work day, coming home usually in the early afternoon to write to her, rest for an hour or so, and walk the dogs. His letters showed his continuing concern SROuE her health: “All my love—get some curves, eat well, be your own sweet self  and come home to your Hap.”  In October he wrote a remarkable article entitled “Our Power to Destroy War,” in which he argued for a continuing national research i. nent and development program, but to the sur prise of those who knew him  not necessarily for an endless commitment to military aircraft  376  HAP  If the nations of the world find that they cannot act in concert, our possession of power will be our only resource. Therefore we must at all cost maintain it  What do we need to maintain it?  I will start by emphasizing that I am not holding any brief for a permanent air force in terms of the mighty air forces we built up during the war. What we will need is