their discomfort “because the ‘bloody Germans’ were making a scene.” At night, when both sides would meet on deck, trying to escape the stifling heat of the staterooms, their arguments would become serious and ominous. “After two or three drinks, the Englishmen became as rude as the Germans. Every- body knew a war was coming and both British and German knew he couldn't lose it. Every phase of the thing was discussed and hashed over again, except the fact that the United States might be a factor  “To the barking of the German officers regarding the superior condition of their army, the British officers, exchanging smiles, would inquire ironically, ‘What about the Royal Navy?’  “The Germans would explode. ‘The British Navy is only a big  mee been in  , enchanted en he heard contraption machine in a few weeks , to Dover.” arn to fly if ps? It didn’t fly. It did, t had about tually flown at if a lot of to England's  mentioned from Hong  had, in fact, ta month at ¢ over him, y outfit, and nd now that is duty there ‘rived in late ertain to be just arrived close-order dinners and inley except 3 “so flat that tenant could  wo years on 1a cannon."? erhaps from commanding ent, assigned lain for the might arise. iding a word  Thomas M. Coffey * 36  bubble,’ they would say. ‘One prick and it was gone forever! All this silly English emphasis on sea power!’ But I saw they had an uneasy belief in to,  After leaving the S.S. Grosse Kurfuerst at Genoa, he went directly to Lucerne, where he made successful inquiries as to the exact whereabouts of the Pools. Reaching Mrs. Pool by telephone, he learned that her two daughters, Eleanor and Lois, were at that moment in town buying Alpine capes and stocks for a mountain-climbing endeavor, and that they would be returning home, across Lake Lucerne, on the 5:00 p.m. boat."*  When Arnold reached the dock he had no trouble finding Eleanor, whom he could never forget, but he was disappointed to discover that she didn't recognize him. “Here stoo