] our landings. . . . So with a strange airplane—and it was a difficult airplane to land—and arriving there at the proper time and getting the work  done, [considering all the problems] Arnold was an excellent leader  In Alaska they spent three days on a photo-mapping operation during which they photographed 20,800 miles of Alaskan wilderness, including the Mount McKinley massif, from the air. They also overcame a mishap that could have proved embarrassing.  One day while the crew was in Fairbanks, Arnold, Knerr, and the third flight leader, Maj. Ralph Royce, together flew three bombers down to Anchorage to inspect the airfield there. With them was a young pilot who was on the expedition as a photographic officer. Not yet having flown a B-10, he asked Arnold, while they were on the ground at Anchorage, if he could take one of the planes up for a short spin. Knerr advised against it because there were technical complications, especially in the fuel system, with which the man was not familiar. But Royce said to Arnold, “Oh, let him go. He's a good pilot.”  The man was only a few hundred feet off the ground when  Thomas M. Coffey * 158  intense that Roosevelt felt compelled to appoint a special committee headed by former Secretary of War Newton D. Baker (soon referred to as the Baker Board) to investigate the airmail fiasco and the general condition of the Air Corps. Hap Arnold, however, emerged from this fiasco with his reputation intact because he had handled the most mountainous, most difficult section of the country with the fewest  casualties.  As soon as Arnold returned to California after closing his Salt Lake City command post, he arranged a leave. He and Bee got in their car for a fishing trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming, and had reached Salt Lake City when a telegram from Washington caught up to them  At Air Corps headquarters, Foulois and his deputy, Gen. Oscar Westover, had been trying to think of projects that would earn the corps some good publicity to count