e direction of Air Marshal Harris,  HAP  whom Arnold had known in Washington. Harris had already construct-  ed what he called his “conversion room,” in which there were three  Thomas M. Coffey 274  Thus confronted, Towers, with aplomb, said “Why, certainly  At the close of this meeting, Churchill and Arnold walked together for a half hour in the garden, after which Arnold noted in his diary: “I may be mistaken but I believe that we can sell our point.” Because Arnold had that ingenuous American habit of exposing his entire argument openly from the start, he seemed to feel the British were equally direct. In time he would come to know them better.  He noticed a great change in London. “People are not the diffident, harried, listless ones I saw last year. They have pep and show an interest in life. The city is cleaned up. Bomb marks are rapidly disappearing.” He went to visit Eaker’s command at High Wycombe and found it “a fine place.” Eaker seemed ready to fly as soon as he got some airplanes, and his first airdromes were nearing completion  At an air ministry conference on the twenty-cighth, Arnold had more trouble with the U.S. Navy than with the British. His friend Towers, whom he had genuinely liked ever since they were fellow students at the Wright brothers’ flying school, annoyed him during this meeting when he said the Navy could send no help for the British coastal command. The Navy had “too many other activities at home,” he said. And when the question of providing more transport planes arose, he suggested that Arnold stop B-17 production at the Douglas Long Beach plant and build cargo planes instead. When one of Portal’s aides asked him what the Navy was willing to give up to help the British, he said, ‘Nothing the Navy could give up would help.” Arnold was furious at  this. It seemed to him that the Army Air Forces “was expected to give everything to everybody.” From then on, he decided, he would “take a much more hard-boiled attitude.”  While he was havi