neral still drank only sparingly, but when he did, it was usually an Old Fashioned or some other sweet cocktail. The president, a good host, had apparently gone to the trouble of finding out Arnold's preference, but his courtesy was lost on Arnold, whose imme- diate reaction was to recall that this same man had almost refused to appoint him Air Corps chief in 1938 because of the rumor that he was a drunk.  Stil eager to erase that impression, Arnold engaged in a bit of ludicrous hyperbole. “Thanks, Mr, President,” he said, “I haven't had one for about twenty years, but I assure you I'll enjoy this one with you, tremendously.”  G CHAPTER ID  rnold’s reconciliation with President Roosevelt and Stimon’s suc- Awe in easing Morgenthau toward the background brightened the prospects for Air Corps growth but did not produce immediate results. During one week in November 1940, for example, the aircraft industry delivered only two tactical planes to the Air Corps, the bulk of the output going to the British, whose desperate need in those dark days and nights of the Battle of Britain could not be doubted. Arnold now had at least some confidence in the British ability to resist Hitler, While the Ameri- can ambassador in London, Joseph P. Kennedy, was sending back gloomy predictions of the early demise of Great Britain, Arnold's own “ambassador to London,” Col. Carl Spaatz, who had gone over there to study developments from an airman’s viewpoint, was sending back optimistic reports.’ The Germans could not invade England, Spaatz insisted, until they defeated the Royal Air Force, and in the Battle of Britain so far, they did not appear able to do so.  On January 17, 1941, Arnold received a letter from Maj. Gen. Frank Andrews, whom Marshall had sent to Panama the previous November (with his second star restored) to command the Canal air defense. Andrews was appalled when he got there to learn that there wasn't any air defense worthy of the name. “I am not happy about our air situat