barrassed he blamed Foulois for telling him that the Air Corps could do the job. And Foulois, having no one else to blame, said the bad weather was the villain. They agreed to cut the schedule and tighten the weather restrictions, but still the young, inexperienced, and ill-equipped pilots continued to crash. On March 8 and 9, four more were killed, bringing the total to ten. Roosevelt summoned Foulois and Chief of Staff MacArthur to the White House for another “shave and a haircut.” He also put further restrictions on routes and flights, and more important, he hurried up his negotiations with the airlines toward new  the fourth day of the project.  airmail agreements  On June 1, the airlines finally resumed carrying the mail and the Air Corps was left to count its losses, It had suffered twelve deaths, sixty-six crashes, and untold humiliation. The public furor was so  wanted urger and when the  Presiden made fraudu contracts and airmail. Furtl the /  ir Corps responsible f which would Francisco, Po and all of tho days later, on Arnold t though he kn {in the West] War Departm the rate of 25 of the ‘regul: officers. They in whatever especially i flown—even The plar twenty-six na the Army we planes was p only 274 dire were actually transmitter-r On Febr House Post € experienced experience ir blind flying a Actually, had more thi fifty hours o instrument ti of bad-weath: Eddie Ricke: persisted in it  Thomas M. Coffey 158  intense that Roosevelt felt compelled to appoint a special committee headed by former Secretary of War Newton D. Baker (soon referred to as the Baker Board) to investigate the airmail fiasco and the general condition of the Air Corps. Hap Arnold, however, emerged from this fiasco with his reputation intact because he had handled the most mountainous, most difficult section of the country with the fewest  casualties  As soon as Arnold returned to California after closing his Salt Lake City command post, he arranged a leave. He and Bee got in their car