oblem of conflicting loyalties. He felt “a certain amount of embarrassment” because he was now “Y anged with the Air Corps Headquarters, across the fence from the G.H.Q. Air Force. Despite his previous loyalty to G.H.Q., he soon learned that the Ait and that the two had better be brought back  Corps needed both sides  together as quickly as possible. Air Corps people had enough of a  struggle against the appropriations inroads of the Army ground forces  and the Navy without wasting their energies fighting each other. One of  Thomas M. Coffey @ 170  Arnold's impulsive protest against becoming assistant chief was no doubt genuine. It meant the loss of his command and a return to Washington, a city he had never learned to like. But when he stopped to think of what else the job meant—a significant promotion, a seat next to the center of power, and the possibility that he might one day be chosen to assume that power—he decided to take it. When he returned to Florida to rejoin his units at the end of the maneuver there, Lt. Gene Beebe, who had become one of his aides, noticed that he had “come back happy” from his Washington side trip.* The two-day flight from Miami to March Field, December 15 to 17, was Arnold's farewell to his men and  to the G.H.Q, Air Force. He was now in the camp of “the enemy.”  In early January 1936, the Arnold family was again on the move, and again by car, but this time it was an abridged version of the family.” Hank was already in Washington, attending prep school and hoping to get into West Point the following autumn. Bruce, thanks to his father’s influence, was able to fly east on a Douglas Aircraft ( ompany test plane. Lois, who didn’t look forward to the long car trip, got her father’s permission to go by train. And Maggie, when informed that the Arnolds were moving to Washington, declined sadly to accompany them; as a black, she was concerned about conditions in the nation's capital.  “I just don't like the way my people live back there,” s