groups by June 30 and thirty-seven groups by December 31. But he could make no promises  Eaker, taking a forlorn view of Arnold's letter, sent him a bitter  311 * HAP  essay at the end of the first week of April, entitled “The Position of the Eighth Air Force.” It began by proclaiming that “the current position of the Eighth Air Force is not a credit to the American Army. After sixteen months in the war we are not yet able to dispatch more than 123 bombers toward an enemy target.”  In mid-April, Arnold was able to send four new B-17 groups to England, but these would hardly give Eaker enough bombers to launch the long-anticipated air offensive against Germany. On April 23, Eaker came to Washington for ten days at Arnold’s behest to present the Combined Bomber Offensive plan, also known as the Eaker Plan, to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. While Eaker was in Washington, Arnold, curiously, wrote a letter to Andrews, who, as the Army’s European theater  commander, was now Eaker’s boss. It was a restless, frustrated letter, criticizing the Eighth Air Force and its fighter and bomber commanders, but not Eaker, its overall commander.® Since the letter attacked one man, Col. Newton Longfellow, the bomber commander, whom Eaker later defended, it could hardly have been inspired by Eaker, who in any case was not likely to inspire a letter criticizing his own command. The most likely explanation of the letter is that it arose out of Arnold's impatience, suddenly ignited by remarks he heard from staff members. It was also a plea for advice from Andrews, whose judgment Arnold had  always trusted almost as much as his own:  Lam rapidly coming to the conclusion that our bombing outfit in the Eighth Air Force is assuming a state of routine repetition of performance and perhaps finding many excuses and alibis for not going on missions, which with more aggressive leaders might be accomplished. Information I receive from England is that our fighter pilots are looking for excuses to go to t