g that what they had seen of the manuscript would need work, sent a professional writer, William R Laidlaw, to help him with it. Laidlaw, who had been a lieutenant colonel in the Eighth Air Force during the war, was familiar with much of Arnold’s story, which proved to be an advantage in their collaboration, but there were also disadvantages. Arnold could be a difficult man under the best conditions. Now his health was a factor in everything he tried to do. He may also have resented the publisher's presumption that he needed help. And he quickly formed the impression that Laidlaw wanted to overemphasize the role of the Eighth Air Force in winning the war. The two men did find a way to work together, but they got into some loud and ludicrous arguments about it.  One day, after a raucous blowout between them, Arnold threw the manuscript on the ground in front of the guest house near Sonoma where Laidlaw and his wife, Helen, were staying.  Laidlaw said, “You pick that up or we're through.”  Arnold finally did so, then drove away. Two days later, he gathered up great bunches of vegetables from his garden, drove back to the Laidlaws’ and presented them to Helen. Bill Laidlaw shook hands with  %  HAP  him and all differences seemed to have been forgotten. When Arnold left, Laidlaw walked out to the car with him  As Arnold started the car, L; it in the gravel driveway. “Stay where you are,  idlaw happened to be standing behind  Arnold called out to him “I've got something else for you!”  Thereupon, he shoved the gas pedal all the way to the floor and showered Laidlaw with gravel from his spinning wheels as he sped  away. Despite such incidents, they managed to finish the book together and it was scheduled for publication in the fall of 1949. Arnold waited with great expectations. The memoirs of several famous World War II figures had already been published and had done well. Arnold's publisher was anticipating a sale of between 60,000 and 80,000 copies; Arnold himself, imp