fey * 82  “violated” her “rule” by making love with her every day. In Apr pregnant for the second time, and this time without complicat spring and summer of 1914 would have been a completely idy! for the Arnolds except for two disturbing circumstances. Cap! Chandler, whom Hap had taught to fly at College Park, wa A. “Bert’  and a new Army hydroplane. Chandler was a close friend  Corregidor with a flying student of his own, Lt. H  Dargue was destined to become an even closer friend. T he tw: spent a lot of time with the Arnolds, making a special point of t them on the tenth of each month for the commemoration wedding.* They insisted that Hap come over to Corregidor for their airplane, and eventually he did go over to see it, but he di it. His airplane phobia had not abated  In August, an even more disturbing event took place: war in Europe; and while there was much talk about America stay it, everybody in the Army realized that before very long they firing real shells and bullets rather than the blanks they maneuvers.  Meanwhile, however, Army life in the Philippines was enough. The Arnolds now had a comfortable house (built o protection against the dampness), which was maintained by t with a cook and houseboy to do most of the work. (They another offer from his sister, Betty, to come over and keep them now that Bee was going to have a child, but Hap was abl that.*) From September 12 to December 8 he served as quar and mess officer for the Field Officers’ Musketry School at ! and also as range officer during machine-gun practice at Cam burg, across the Pampanga River near Angeles. He liked the master job because it kept him busy, “but not that chow job.” ( job is one that almost no officer wants.) Once again, howeve demonstrated his surprising adaptability by performing both jc as to earn a glowing commendation from his commanding off was often away from Bee during this time, but not for longs Whether he was with her or away from her, he worried more did about her co