ntinued to drink only two, but he began ser ving himself from a larger glass which naturally called for larger amounts. Lee’s visits also remind-  ed him to watch his diet, and gave him someone to whom he could talk  about his active years. Yet these visits were di the fact that Bee and the doctor unmistakably disliked each other. To her, he was one of those medical men who had tried to keep her away from Hap after the heart attac ks. She felt he was not as compassionate as n.* She also seemed to think he had arranged for Hap her this was  jampened to some degree by  he might have bee: to meet other women, and there was no way to convince untrue.  Arnold spent who had been assigned to him as an aide  a lot of time on the land with M. Sgt. Bruce Simmons, Simmons thought of him  Thomas M. Coffey * 378  growth of the Air Forces, the huge wartime expansion, and He talked  exploration of space. He described a world of the future,  could envision but would probably never see. He warned  contraction. about supersonic aircraft, rocke  ready for this world, to anticipate the changes to come, to | discard the obsolete, however sentimentally attached to it th and to examine new ideas, however outlandish they might ay glance. Only by making the maximum use of science, tech imagination could the Air Forces hope to maintain the stre sary for the defense of the nation  At the end of his speech he paused and looked dow familiar faces in front of him. “I know you people think the : lost his marbles and ought to retire,” he told them. “But I ha remember what I said here today,”  The Arnolds spent the rest of February closing out thei quarters, and to the extent Hap’s health would allow, attend parties in their honor. Since Hap was physically limited Bee, and she too hard, not o arrangements for their move from Washington, but on the relief problems that still engrossed her. She seemed unable t control her own moods. She might act quite normally one mit minute later explode emotionall