more impressed on each visit with the rate of their progress and the magnitude of their program. Germany is undoubtedly the most powerful nation in the world in military aviation and her margin of leadership is increasing with each month that passes. She is develop- ng her research facilities as rapidly as she is increasing the rate of production. The design and performance of German aircraft are excellent and improving greatly each year. In a number of fields the Germans are already ahead of us and they are rapidly cutting down whatever lead we now hold in many others.  My object in writing to you at this time is to tell you how essential I believe it is for us to keep in closer touch with Germany, especially in  regard to military aviation I wish that you yourself could make a trip to Germany in the near future to see what is being done in that country  As it happened, Arnold had planned a trip to Germany the previous summer for the very purpose Lindbergh mentioned, but his superiors had dissuaded him from it “for diplomatic reasons.” After receiving Lindbergh's letter, he was sufficiently aroused to reopen the possibility, but, as he explained in his November 17 answer to Lind- bergh, Woodring and Craig had again vetoed his plan. If Arnold had gone to Germany and the Nazis had been as boastfully open with him as they had been with Lindbergh, he might have brought back some useful information. But he would have needed forty-cight-hour days to do everything he did in the latter months of 1938 and still have time for a trip to Germany  He was now so consumed by his job, and stayed so late at the office, that Bee and David felt like a widow and an orphan. In a leuer to Lois  and Ernie Hap wrote:* “We are quite busy, not keeping the water  Thomas M. Coffey 190  France to become serious about the matter and to hasten its rearma- ment. A few days later, Lindbergh again went to Germany, toured  several more aircraft plants, and on October 18 foolishly accepted a  ring. W