and that Marshall recognized in Arnold “a dedicated officer in a field in which he, General Marshall, was not specialized, and at the same time . .. a human being, this warm-hearted, loyal, mercurial, flamboyant belligerent fellow who didn’t care who he took on in battle.”  Marshall undoubtedly saw in Arnold the great big, bubbling, energetic, and clumsy boy who would be dangerous in a china shop, but he also was aware of Arnold’s genius as a builder, a motivator, a synthesizer. And he so appreciated Arnold's genius that he was tolerant of, and perhaps amused by, the boy in him.  He even tolerated Arnold's outrageously boyish practical jokes. One day, earlier in the year, Arnold, on a mischievous impulse, had sent an old friend, comedian Vince Barnett, into Marshall's office, pretending to be a wealthy European immigrant, In a thick accent, he told the dignified general he wanted to get into the flying business.  " 349 * HAP  \jtwall sided with their C-54 as it was landing at Casablanca. By the time they wwicit)! *ached Washington, Arnold’s third heart attack was so far behind him \iliat yat he went back to work as if it hadn’t happened. But the incoming iwi! etails of the first B-29 raid on the Japanes » afficient to bring on a fourth attack.  homeland were almost  pun 1  yall  fii on  cl Led by Blondie Saunders, seventy-five Superforts had taken off ivi om their Chinese bases in the late afternoon of June 18 for the slit"! 200-mile round trip to Yawata, on the island of Kyushu.” They wit!!! atended to destroy the Imperial Iron and Steel Works, which produced, sical ccording to intelligence reports, twenty-four percent of Japan’s rolled unders,  WW  teel. Because formation flying used too much fuel, Wolfe and st vith Arnold’s concurrence, decided to make it a night mission, with the ni’?"” Janes following each other and bombing individually.  ia One bomber crashed on takeoff and four others had to turn back st” Secause of mechanical problems. Saunders dropped his b