ht now go to the American Air Corps by default. But it was a blessing he didn’t welcome. Contrary to the impression he had created in his contention with Morgenthau, he was in favor of sending to France and England all the planes that could be spared, He sympathized with their cause against Hitler, and he recognized as well that their orders had provided much of the money that allowed the U.S. aircraft industry to expand. His quarrel with Morgenthau concerned only the ratio of planes for the Allies and planes for his skeletal Air Corps; he didn’t want Morgenthau to send all available planes abroad and leave him with virtually none. But neither did he want to take for the Air Corps all the planes now being produced for the Allies; he had neither the money to buy them nor the men to fly them. And the Allies desperately needed them.  Fortunately, the aircraft companies and the British, with Roosevelt pretending not to notice, worked out a subterfuge that at least alleviated  204  205 HAP  the problem until it could be solved. The companies began shipping their planes north to the Canadian border and leaving them precisely on  the international line. British workers would then come forward and  pull them across, thus technically avoiding delivery in the United States. It was a clumsy arrangement and far from satisfactory but it did permit the continuing delivery of planes during the two months it took Roosevelt to convince Congress that Hitler's victims should be allowed to buy weapons, on a cash-and-carry basis at least. When the problem of selling planes to the belligerent Allies was eliminated in ear ly November —with the French and British needing more planes than ever—Arnold’s problem of keeping a few for his Air Corps was exacerbated. If he was to  succeed in his task of expanding the the mat against Morgenthau, and perhaps against the president himself.  He did, however, have an important new ally in George Marshall, who, by coincidence, had become chief of staff