sy to celebrate his arrival in view of her delicate condition and Hap’s imminent exile to Panama. Since Bee hadn't yet fully recovered from her first sojourn in the tropics, it seemed foolish to take her to Panama with two tiny children. Hap left her in the hospital at Coronado while he went off to Panama by way of Washington and New York Before he left, they decided to name the new baby Henry H. Arnold, Jr.  When Arnold reached Panama, his new commanding officer, Maj. Gen. Clarence Edwards, greeted him with the news that his efficiency report from San Diego was “awful.” Arnold asked.  The general declined. “It's so rotten,” he said, “it makes you stink.”  Edwards seemed sympathetic, however, and Arnold attacked his new assignment with such enthusiasm one might have thought it was the achievement of a lifelong ambition. “This job,” he had written to Bee after being briefed in Washington, “is the biggest one I have ever had, or  “May I see it?  expected to have for years to come.”™* He also noted in another letter to her, “There was a lot of objection [in Washington] to my being detailed as a squadron commander. . . . I stand in well with some and not so well with others.”**  His new job turned out to be neither the best nor the ¢  siest he ever  had. With the Kaiser's submarines strewing British and French ships along the ocean floor from the North Atlantic to the Caribbean, and now sinking American ships as well, President Wilson was edging ever closer to a declaration of war against Germany. Under these circumstances, a very real danger to the Panama Canal seemed imminent, and the Army's air arm was determined to prove useful in helping the Navy protect it Before anything else could be done, all parties with an interest in the defense of Panama had to agree on the location of the new aero squadron, which was to be sent down facilities for it. The Navy, the Signal Corps, and the Coast Artillery had  as soon as Arnold could build  each selected an ideal site, but no