t the front. He had developed a manner that asserted command. Without being autocratic, he spoke positively, as if he expected to be heard and heeded. The officers around him seemed to dance attendance upon him, doing his bidding  Aircraft manufacturer Donald Douglas (at that time an employee of Glenn Martin) was in the lobby of Dayton’s Miami Hotel one evening in early 1919 when “here comes this great big chap, with a bunch of aides running around him, flinging out orders right and left.”  Douglas said to someone nearby, “Who's that?”  “That's Colonel Arnold. He’s just come back from the western front.”  Douglas was impressed. “We'd seen a hell of a lot of fliers, but they were all boys,” he later recalled. “Here was a man.”  Eaker had intended to help the demobilization along by demobi- lizing himself, but after seeing Arnold and Spaatz in action, he decided to stay in the service, It seemed to him that “these two were going places and this would be a good team to join.” There is a touch of irony in Eaker’s decision, because Arnold himself was then so discouraged he was tempted to leave the Army.* He was still bitter about the fact that he hadn't been allowed to get to the front during the war, and he was fully convinced that only the men who had seen action would move ahead in the Air Service. He already had some evidence of this in the fact that he had been summarily dismissed from headquarters now that the combat veterans were returning to fill the best jobs.*  He was concerned not only about his own future but about the  future of aviation, to which he had rededicated himself completely since his return to flying status in 1916, This rededication had approached the intensity of a born-again conversion. For the first time in his life, Arnold had found a cause to which he could give himself completely. But now that he had adopted that cause, it seemed to him that a lot of other people who should be embracing it were abandoning it. The war had proven to everybody