make their  chia) Getaway on buffalo-drawn carts! There could be no explanation. On his byw first assignment as an Army officer, he had allowed an apparently divin! unarmed gang of nondescript thieves to take away from him millions of wilivjh dollars in government money. And only now, several hours later, he was « arriving to report it. What would the Philippine officials say? What Yibhit would they do to him?  sclw hl He was astonished to find, when he walked in and identified choi himself, that they simply smiled at him, The money? It has been dh delivered, every box of it, hours earlier. They gave him a receipt for it il and thanked him, Alinta: good fortune and a sense of relief overcame him. But not for long. With  sradually, as he stared at the receipt, he realized his  Milt his big problem solved, he became more aware than ever of the humid iwi’ Philippine heat attacking him through his heavy woolen uniform,  wdc, Assigned to the 29th Infantry Division at Fort McKinley, he soon sil (patil! West Point classmates, Lt. Benjamin Castle and Lt, Wiley Dawson, he s/t! moved into a large, two-story bachelor officers’ quarters occupied by no  made it clear to friends that he didn’t like the accommodations. With two  vial one but themselves.” They hired a Chinese cook and Filipino houseboy, dihisi bought some bamboo furniture, scrounged some quartermaster beds, istence. On a typical day they would  alichh! and settled down to a primitive es yw arise at five a.m., eat breakfast, then go to their respective companies for {iumidt? Close-order drill, target practice, swimming, wall-scaling, and so forth,  iwutall from six to ten. After drill, they would do company paperwork until iu’ noon, then return to quarters for lunch and a siesta, which lasted until Huavilit five, though it was sometimes cut short for the second lieutenants, who jittish had to be reminded occasionally that they were in the Army.  i After siesta came the traditional Army social ritual of paying intdol