s Building, several people inherited from the Ferry Command, and no airplanes except those in transit to operational units around the world. With Arnold's help, they chiseled a few planes for their first air routes (until he was able to start a steady flow coming to them from the factories); then, after developing a priority system for passengers and cargo, they began scheduled flights. Whenever they needed a directive to get something done, Arnold would give it to them. But Arnold's cooperation arose not only from his realization of the need for military transport but from his long-time vision of aviation as a means of mass transport. He had often spoken to his sons about the days to come when air travel would be as common as a bus ride. By developing the A.T.C into a worldwide airline, he was pointing in that direction, creating a model for today’s great worldwide airlines systems. And he was soon pleased with the two men he had chosen to run it. He later said of the A.T.C., “Once it had established its bases around the world and General George and General C. R. Smith were operating it, I was able to forget about it."*° ;  There were problems in the beginning, however, and one of them arose in the person of Juan Trippe, president of Pan American Airways, who felt no need for an A.T.C. Arnold had only to provide the planes and Pan American would do the whole job for him. Or at least the whole overseas job. “We're the only airline,” he said, “that has the experience and capability of flying overseas.”?”  Arnold, who did not consider it his job to build Pan American into a monopoly, said to Trippe, “I'll give you your share, but before this war is over, I'm going to have every major airline in the United States flying overseas, hauling military cargo.” Though there had been talk of confiscating or militarizing all the airlines, Arnold decided he didn't favor that. It seemed to him that the individual lines could operate more effectively on their own, under the direct