sy, but also because, when he became Air Corps chief, General Craig had decreed that as long as he held that job he would not again fly alone or in a single-engine plane. Having just lost General Westover in the crash of a single-engine plane he was flying himself, Craig had decided he didn’t want to lose another Air Corps chief, He had told Arnold to choose a personal pilot and keep him on hand. Arnold chose Capt. Eugene Beebe, with whom he had often flown at March Field, but who had then gone to Wright Field to become a bombardment project officer."* As soon as Beebe reported for duty in Washington, Arnold had introduced him to Craig, who told him, “Son, your main job is to keep Hap alive, You'd better do it.” When they  weren't flying, Beebe occupied a desk in Arnold's office and helped with administrative matters.  Though Arnold acknowledged the benefits of foreign orders in hastening the  expansion of U.S. aircraft plants, he was quite unaware in 1940 of another benefit, which was destined to become tangible in late 1943, just when he desperately needed it. In April 1940, the British  215 HAP  Purchasing Commission, headed by Air Marshall Arthur T. Harris, approached North American Aviation president J. H. “Dutch” Kinde  berger and asked him to manufacture for them under license as many Curtiss P-40s as possible. Kindelberger, convinced that the P-40, with its small Allison engine, could not face up to Germany's fighters, suggested instead that he design a fighter for the British.’ When Harris and his colleagues agreed, Kindelberger and his staff went to work, and using as the basic mode! a plane the Air Corps had rejected after a crash, they designed within a 120-day time limit the plane that would one day become famous as the P-51 Mustang. But, when the time came to select an engine for this plane, it suffered the same fate as the P-40. The best liquid-cooled engine available in America was the Allison V-1710, and it generated only 1,200 horsepower. The first