ral MacArthur.”*°  279 HAP  Anderson didn’t know that, while Arnold admired Brett’s adminis- trative skills, they had not been close friends since 1938, when Brett tried hard for the chief of Air Corps job, which went to Arnold. To replace Brett, Arnold sent George Kenney from the Fourth Air Force in California, It proved to be one of the best choices he ever made. Without losing his own strong individuality, Kenney pleased MacArthur from the start by his enterprising and imaginative use of the few airplanes he had  In June, Tooey Spaatz, after organizing the flow of Eighth Air Force planes, men, and supplies from the United States to England, took off himself for London to assume command of the Eighth. To team with his bomber commander, Ira Eaker, who was already in England, he took along Gen. Frank “Monk” Hunter, another friend of Arnold's from the March Field days.  The night of Spaatz’s departure, his wife, Ruth, bade him a tearful farewell. He did his best to comfort her, but with his usual economy of  he said. “I'll be back within six months. By that time,  words. “Relax, Hap will fire me.”*"  Throughout the war, Arnold kept sending his closest friends and best staff members overseas, not to punish but to reward them. In July, after Marshall established a United States Army Forces headquarters in the South Pacific, perhaps as a buffer between MacArthur and the Navy, Arnold relinquished his chief of air staff, Maj. Gen Millard F. “Miff” Harmon, to command it. (He replaced Harmon with the obscure but efficient Maj. Gen. George E. Stratemeyer.) Time after time, Arnold had told his personal pilot, Col. Eugene Beebe, about his disappointment at having to spend the entire First World War in Washington. He was determined that in this war the outstanding men around him would see action, even if it meant recurrent disruption of his own staff. Eaker, Spaatz, Hunter, Harmon, Kenney, and others already overseas were the vanguard of a long parade of Arnold associates he wo