for the last five days here.”"*  “We'll put him in the post guesthouse for a few days,” Hap sug- gested, “and then he can travel to San Diego with us.”  That plan did not appeal to Be  “L can see your father on the train with our kids,” she said. “He has the patience of an angry wasp anyway, and by the time Bunky [Hank] gets trainsick and John needs a change and Billy Bruce and Lois have their first fight, he'll be ready to start his lecture on child behavior, Then you'll sound off, and before you know it, there'll be the worst train disaster since the wreck of old ninety- seven.”  Hap solved the problem by taking his father and Lois to San Diego on the night boat, and Bee and the boys followed by train. The elderly Dr. Arnold was sometimes difficult to endure, but his son was neverthe- less fortunate to have him around on one occasion at San Diego. Arnold had always enjoyed working with wood and had developed a certain skill as a cabinetmaker. To brighten their Rockwell quarters, he decided to build a flower box. One Sunday afternoon he went to the base wood- working shop with his father and his son Henry. He was cutting some boards with a band saw when his left hand slipped and before he could pull it back, he had sliced the ends off his middle, index, and fourth fingers. While he howled in pain, old Dr. Arnold calmly picked up the three nubs and wrapped them in his handkerchief. Then he bundled Hap into the car, drove him to the base hospital, and stitched the three  finger ends back into place. Arnold's left hand was gnarled thereafter, and the injured fingers were twisted, but they were usable.'’ Arnold's job at Rockwell was so undemanding he must have felt the Air Service had put him out to pasture, and indeed it may be that someone in Washington had decided he needed a rest after his sojourn in the hospital. The field was no longer a busy flying school and air base. It functioned now mostly as an air depot, with only a handful of enlisted men and nine officer