ost, so that the several checks he had made out that very day, to settle his bills before he left the post, were written on what was probably a defunct account, The only money the family now possessed was the children’s education fund, which they had putin Bee’s father’s bank  Bleak as this sounds, it is doubtful that the Arnolds could at first comprehend what was happening to them and the country. Though the national epidemic of bank failures had now begun, the whole phenome- non seemed so unreal that it took people some time to grasp it. The Arnolds’ visit to Ardmore must have been a somber one; Dr. Arnold had  ow    Thomas M. Coffey * 146  all. The people there, including the merchants, were not above posting  signs that read: “Dogs and Soldiers—Keep Out.” Relations between the  Thomas M. Coffey * 146  all. The people there, including the merc hants, were not above posting signs that read: “Dogs and Soldiers—Keep Out.” Relations between the Air Corps troops and the good citizens were so strained that Arnold arranged a meeting with the city fathers, hoping to relieve the situation. When he realized this meeting had done no good, he tried a new strategy. He declared Riverside off limits to all of his men and provided  buses to take them to San Bernardino on their free days.  Riverside merchants soon felt the business loss so acutely that it was they who asked for the next meeting. At their request, Arnold agreed to cancel his off-limits order, but for the next several months he had his  men paid in two-dollar bills so the Riverside shopkeepers would have  continuing reminder that March Field soldiers provided a sizable portion of their income  Not content with this standoff, Arnold then set about trying to establish a positive relationship with the people of Riverside. He instructed each of his officers to join at least one of the town’s service clubs, whether Kiwanis, Lions, Rotary, or any other. And he arranged special days for townspeople to visit the base, so h