d had lobbied through Congress a    323 * HAP  in his memoirs, he took upon himself some of the blame for its slow  development. “That we did not have it sooner was the Air Forces’ own  323 * HAP  in his memoirs, he took upon himself some of the blame for its slow development. “That we did not have it sooner was the Air Forces’ own fault." But once he realized the need, he rushed the production of P-51s with his customary urgency  (The P-51s did not arrive in England quickly enough, however, to alleviate the pain of the second Schweinfurt mission{ Within two weeks after Arnold returned to Washington, he was again becoming impatient for more action against Germany. On September 7,9, 15, 16, 23, and 26, Eaker’s Fortress fleet, not yet recovered from the battering at Stuttgart and hampered by more bad weather over Germany, hit targets in France, but never with more than $00 planes. Arnold couldn't under- stand this. He had sent almost a thousand B-17s to England. Why was Eaker dispatching only 300 at a time? “To us here in the United States,” he wrote to Eaker September 20, 1943, “it looks as if the employment of large numbers of heavy bombers has not been followed through by your headquarters and staff _ Since my visit to England the impression in my mind is that you still figure on employing small numbers of 300 or maybe 400 at a time.” Despite Eaker’s explanations, Arnold seemed unable to accept the fact that so many of the bombers he had sent to Europe were lost or damaged beyond repair.  Eaker on September 27 sent his Fortresses back to Germany in the hope of bombing Emden by radar through an overcast, but only 305 bombers could make the trip and the results were indifferent. In Washington on the twenty-eighth, Gen. Laurence Kuter, now assistant chief of air staff for plans, prepared at Arnold’s direction three radiograms to “put more heat on the Eighth Air Force” and “build a fire under Gen. Eaker.”  “Your bombing through the overcast,” one of these messages said