” Id’s heart attack, » works hard and 2ral, is it likely to  sked me to point y endanger their  was saved. But port on Arnold's  on his buzzer, as Kee, one of eight iir Forces to help Arnold shouted  “I'm very much | said. “I want an and I want it by  ih in two days, he ould tell Arnold , even though he ant yes-men. But Returning to his nd. Sunday noon  Nar Department idn’t been able to  Ss Re  y  Thomas M. Coffey * 308  Eaker, worried also about the bombers, insisted there was little point in having fighters if they couldn't accompany and protect the bombers. But nce, first of all because Eaker’s demand  their argument hung in the ba  for extra fuel tanks was unfulfilled so far, and secondly because, even with extra tanks, it was doubtful that the P-47 could reach the heart of Germany.  By this time, however, the North American P-51 Mustang, a  hopelessly sluggish airplane when it was powered by a 1,300-horsepower Allison Engine, had been reborn, at the suggestion of the British, by the substitution of a 1,600-horsepower Rolls-Royce Merlin engine. Suddenly it was beginning to act like a potentially great fighter plane. But like all other fighter planes of the period, it lacked range.  Arnold had put Maj. Gen. Barney Giles, now his director of military requirements, to work on the problem."” It was Giles who had earlier solved the P-38 training problem by adding a piggyback seat for instructors. He called North American president Dutch Kindelberger and told him the Air Forces wanted to put three hundred more gallons of gasoline in the P-51  Kindelberger said, “Impossible!” The wings would not be strong enough and neither would the landing gear.  “Have a P-51 on the line tomorrow morning at ten o'clock,” Giles said. “I'll fly out there tonight. And have some of your design engineers there, too.”  The next morning, after examining the plane, Giles said, “Take out the radio set behind the pilot and put in a hundred-gallon tank, Then open up the wings and put in bulletp