balance wheel in your office. Let him look over some of the things you write before you put them out. Stop saying all those things about the independent air arm that are driving these old Army and Navy people crazy ss)  But to this warning, Mitchell replied, “When senior officers won't see facts, something unorthodox, perhaps an explosion is necessary. I'm doing it for the good of the [Service], . . . for the good of you fellows. I can afford to do it. You can't.”  In the spring of 1924, General Patrick, whom Arnold had never considered a friend, informed him he would remain at his backwater San Diego post for at least one more year, and Arnold could only interpret this as a sign that he was not on Patrick’s list of officers marked for advancement. During Arnold's trip to Europe in 1918, Patrick, then air chief at the front, had made the mistake of asking him for his “most critical reactions” to the air installations he had seen. And Arnold had made the mistake of giving him his most critical reactions, for which, he was convinced, Patrick had never forgiven him. But in August 1924, Arnold was surprised to find in the mail an order transferring him to Washington as a student at the Army Industrial College. Arnold never did find out who arranged this—it could have been Mitchell. It seemed unlikely that Patrick had suddenly decided to bring him in out of the California sun  Arnold’s move from San Diego to Washington was complicated by more family problems. He and Bee were both worried about Lois, who, at the age of nine, had begun making up stories about herself which went beyond childhood fantasy and indicated a certain reluctance to accept reality  Then in May, Bee herself had developed intestinal complications, which could have originated with her surgery in the Philippines nine years earlier. Not fully confident in Army doctors as a result of that experience as well as what she considered the unnecessary death of her baby John at the Rockwell base hospital, she de