m from Washington caught up to them  At Air Corps headquarters, Foulois and his deputy, Gen. Oscar Westover, had been trying to think of projects that would earn the corps some good publicity to counteract the ridicule heaped upon it as a result of the airmail disaster. The first of the Martin B-10 bombers had just been delivered. A twin-engined, low-winged plane with a 900-mile range and an airspeed of 200 miles per hour, it was considered the marvel of its day. A flight of these planes to Alaska and back would serve the useful purpose of helping to map great stretches of uncharted northland, and it would also be a dramatic demonstration of Air Corps accomplishment. But no inexperienced young reserves would be sent on this mission. Maj- Hugh Knerr, an expert pilot and ingenious logistician, was named executive officer, and it was he who arranged for all the supplies and facilities that would be needed at all the fields where the planes would land, going and returning  Much of the planning had already been done when Foulois decided that Arnold should lead the flight and began tracking him down with phone calls and telegrams. As soon as Arnold received Foulois's wire in Salt Lake City, he sent Bee home and proceeded to Wright Field in Dayton, where the flight was being organized. On June 29 he wrote to her from there: “Everyone in Washington thinks this is a wonderful assignment but to me it is only another job.”*  His enthusiasm may have been dampened that day because he had just made final crew selections, which meant he had been forced to send home five pilots who had counted on going. He also h  ad some reserva-  tions about the B-10s because they were brand-new and not thoroughly  tested. “The new plane is an excellent one,” he wrote to Bee  “but it must be properly prepared and the install  ation of equipment and instruments  159 HAP  cannot be hurried. | believe that when we do start we will have the ships in such condition that we will have a reasonable chanc