and I want it by  soon as possible,” he said. “Then fill them with water and give the plane  Sunday.”**  a thorough test.” : Though McKee thought the job was too big to finish in two days, he  They did, and within a few weeks, the water-laden P-51 underwent knew better than to say so. He had found that he could tell Arnold  something shouldn't be done, and Arnold would listen, even though he might disagree. He encouraged argument. He didn’t want yes-men But only a fool would tell him something couldn't be done. Returning to his desk, McKee worked night and day through the weekend. Sunday noon he reported to Arnold.  “Sir, I have the plan but I couldn't get the War Department  and passed a series of tests that would eventually have a profound effect on the course of the war in Europe.  In early April, Arnold had to face a question he had been dreading since the moment of his heart attack. In light of that episode, would he  be allowed to continue on active duty? Army regulations said no. And af ‘ coordination.” Perhaps because it was a weekend, he hadn't been able to  only the president, as commander in chief, had the power to override 6 find the General Staff officers he needed.  Cs  Thomas M. Coffey * 310  Arnold said, “To hell with ‘em. We'll go ahead with our own,”  After reading the plan, Arnold buzzed his chief of staff, Strate- meyer, and said, “I want Major McKee to go to Africa immediately.”  Stratemeyer reminded Arnold that McKee was on the staff of Gen Gordon Saville, director of air defense. Stratemeyer may also have had in mind McKee’s youth and inexperience in Air Forces methods, and the fact that he was a nonflying officer. That was an important liability in the minds of many veteran airmen, but it apparently made no difference to Arnold. “I don’t give a goddamn who he works for,” he said. “You can send him in my plane.” By the end of the day, McKee, who had never flown a plane, was on his way to Africa to tell Tooey Spaatz w hat kind of an air defense