ed that a newsman dubbed it the  planes look puny.  s also easy to fly.  Flying Fortress.” As its modifications began, the 299 became the Y1B-17, and eventually, with several improvements, the celebrated B-17, But before that hap- pened, there was a lot of travail.  On October 30, 1935, Maj. Ployer P. “Pete” Hill, chief of the Wright Field Flight Testing Section, decided he would fly the new Model 299, which his primary test pilot, Lt. Donald L. Putt, had successfully  conducted through its competitive testing. Putt went along as copilot  that morning, and Boeing test pilot Les Tower went along as an observer.’*  When Hill took the plane off the ground, it had barely become airborne before it fell off on one wing and crashed, Hill was killed immediately. Tower later died of his injuries. Putt survived with a deep gash on his head. The cause of the accident was easy to determine Boeing’s Model 299 was the first plane built with internal locks on its aileron, rudder, and elevator controls. But in those days, as Putt later explained, “we didn’t have any ¢ heck lists. You got in, just as if it were an automobile, stepped on the starter and took off.” Major Hill had taken off with the elevator control locked.  Though it would seem obvious that the plane should not be blamed  Thomas M. Coffey  the first campaigns in which Arnold became embroiled was the effort to keep the War Department from using up a large portion of the Air Corps appropriations to buy short-range support planes, the kind Hugh Drum favored, for the Infantry. The stakes in this battle were high. It involved the very concept for which Air Corps men had been fighting since the days of Billy Mitchell, the concept which Douhet and Trench-  ard and the brilliant young strategists at Maxwell Field had been  painstakingly refining for several years. If the Air Corps allowed itself to become primarily an Infantry support unit, the whole dream of building a long-range striking force would be shattered and the rev