arshal, was able to med t0  assure him no such thing was inthe wind. This news in itself help him relax  When Bee arrived, she occupied the room Beebe had been using, adjacent to her husband's room. She soon found, however, that Dr Marquardt had no intention of letting her walk in on him any time she pleased. The doctor, quic Aly perceiving that Arnold and his wife were having problems, and convinced that her presence unduly agitated bis patient, asked her not to disturb him  To Bee, any exclusion from her husband's room was like an  exclusion from her own home, The suggestion that she might disturb ere to  him angered her, She wasnt there to disturb him, she was th comfort him, She argued with Dr. Marquardt, but her vehemence further convinced him that she might needles agitate and thereby  envdange his patent. For two days there was an unpleasant standoff  between Bee and Dr, Marquardt, Then, sla  Washington Beebe continued t0 act as Arnolds Uason with his ofe, from  she went home 10  which Barney Giles sent memoranda every other day, summarizing developments that might cheer the boss but omitng matters that might cate or agitate him, On the fifth of February, for instance Giles had  {AP  his feet, playing golf and making wry 22 letter to Lois he wrote, v a gasket and I had to get down wwhile he was making light of his erned about Bee, whose nervous tis doctors. “I just heard that your old Lois. “She had an excellent ind I think she is much improved irther information.”  1a two weeks later, much more of them were again getting along wrote Lois on March 7, “but sit in  very long in the sun, however, s later he was plotting his escape Bruce in San Francisco, he wrote, jut it may not be too long before I uperate a darn sight faster going rest in between, than | will trying e Pentagon building.”  he would have to learn to take it he war no longer in doubt, there Travel would be more relaxing tine, but instead of going west, he e had been planning to go (for the xen. L