ed, Hap Arnold got a good look at war in all its gory horror. And the description he wrote in his diary that night showed  vividly the chilling impression it made upon him:  Aircraft fighting overhead. ... Bombs and shells bursting on the  German positions a scant 1,800 yards away. Men crouching behind  walls in the mud. Tents under bushes and trees....AA guns opening up at FW-190s and 109s overhead. Spitfires coming into the fight... . Infantrymen crouching behind any kind of cover, German  observers watching our movements up the road from the hill beyond. A tank blown to bits from running over a mine. Five bodies lying in small pieces on the ground, ... Jeeps and mud, trucks and tanks, more mud... bridges and culverts blown out by bombs.... Villages and towns demolished. . . . Hospitals operating room. Removing bomb and shell splinters from [a] soldier's head, pulling a mangled hand together, tying a body together after a shell fragment tore loose a hip and almost all of a buttock . .. holes in back and abdomen the size of a football  A man with only half his innards, dying, but still smiling and saying, “Pm all right.”  Though he was now a four-star general and one of the nation’s most distinguished soldiers, this was the first time in his life Arnold had been  in the midst of an actual battle.  Three days after his return to Washington, Arnold had to under- take, on December 18, the unpleasant duty of informing Ira Eaker that he was no longer commander of the Eighth Air Force. Because Eaker was a friend of such long standing, Arnold tried to break the news gently  by announcing his new jub first and emphasizing its importance, but  once again he was a victim of his notorious inability to convey bad news  gracefully. His cable to Eaker said:  Thomas M. Coffey 330  look, while she was out there, for a place they might be able to afford. In Cairo, on December 4, he received a cable from her announcing that she had bought “a ranch.” In his diary that day, he had wri