st 15, official word arrived. The Japanese govern- ment of Prime Minister Kantaro Suzuki had accepted the unconditional surrender terms agreed upon at the Potsdam Conference  The Arnolds had finished their evening meal when the news arrived.*? That afternoon they had entertained British Air Marshal Arthur Harris at a small reception, and a few of the guests were still there, including Hank and his wife, Kaye. There was no loud outcry when the news became official, perhaps because, for several hours, everyone in the house had known it was coming. Within a few minutes,  however, old friends began dropping in and soon the house was  crowded. Hank took over the bartending duties while his father shook  hands with each new arrival  HAP  After a while, George Marshall, who lived only a few doors down the street, walked in quietly. As usual, his presence commanded atten- tion and he thanked the officers in the room for their help in the war effort. Then he and Arnold shook hands and congratulated each other.  That was all  air strength to the | superfluous. Aware the Far East), Arnolc the private White H assumed that even the cruiser Augusta would get the new transmitted by Spai  cable came  Hiroshima bomt August 5, 7 tion and no flak 15 minutes after  respects. Visible airplane followir  The days passec why Japan refused only a small part o Japan. With high-ex 2,333,000 homes in of its cities. These « people and wounde before the ultimate was no word from Nagasaki, but still th an order instructing bombed-out and bu ing and urging ther Finally, on Aug ment of Prime Mini: surrender terms agi The Arnolds t arrived.*? That afte Arthur Harris at a there, including Ha when the news bec everyone in the hou however, old frien: crowded, Hank tool hands with each nev  CHAP Te 21 _))  —@ @  ANY Os  ‘il he end of World War I] marked, in effect, the end of Hap Arnold's  active career. Though it was not until six months later, on Febra-  ary 9, 1946, that he resigned as commanding gen