make sure they were worth what they cost. reputation, perhaps his whole career, was riding on the Superfort and its contribution to the war effort.  Though no one yet knew whether this giant bomber was w having, everyone involved in the Pacific war was asking for it. Mar thur and Kenney in Australia fully expected to get their share; so Nimitz and the Navy. And Chiang Kai-shek, who had agreed to play to the B-29s, wanted, therefore, to control or at least influence decision on how they would be used. None of these people intende use the plane the way Arnold thought it should be used. MacAr would use it to soften up the Dutch East Indies, and then the Ph pines, in preparation for his triumphant return there. Nimitz would iang would  it against submarines. And no one could be sure how  it—presumably against Japanese forces in China.  If all these people got their share, the B-29 force would fractured and the net effect would be to dilute its total impact Arnold, Japan was the main target. If the B-29 had any message to ci he wanted it carried to the Japanese homeland. The way to make happen, he decided, was to retain control of it himself. With Marst help, he managed to put through the Joint Chiefs a directive creating Twentieth Air Force, comprising the 20th and 21st bomber comma which would get virtually all the B-29s, and would be commanded by Joint Chiefs, with himself acting as their executive agent. On Febr 19, he secured President Roosevelt's approval of this plan. Since Joint Chiefs had already approved it, Nimitz could hardly put up 1 of a fight. And Chiang wouldn't be able to stop it. But MacArthur, sometimes seemed to be running his own private war, and who strong conservative political support at home, might cause probl Accordingly, Arnold sent a personal representative, Larry Kute! Australia to break the news to him.  Tell MacArthur, Arnold instructed Kuter, that he won't be ge'    341 * HAP  Burma, Indochina, and southern China, which were held by the Ja