was long forgotten. The two men had always been cordial to each other, but Arnold was poorly disposed toward Chaney at the moment because he wasn’t cooperating fully with Ira Eaker in the formation of the Eighth Air Force Bomber Command."* Chaney wanted Eaker in his headquarters and under his direct command, And since he was theater commander, his argument had force, but that was not the way Arnold wanted it and it wasn’t the way he intended to have it. Chaney was too conservative for him. He had decided that Spaatz and Eaker, not Chaney, would command the air offensive against Germany.  None of this came up during their breakfast, but Chaney did cast some doubts upon the efficiency of two American pursuit planes, the P-38 and P-39. Arnold didn’t like to hear that, either. He would have  273 * HAP  more to say to Chaney later, His thoughts at the moment concerned the problem of breaking the bad news to the British about the bombers they would not be getting.  At 10:00 a.m. he reached Portal’s air ministry office and, in his words, had a “long talk about everything but why I came over. Then a short talk on the main issue. That was the first indication that the task  Was not going to be an ee  npossible one  Arnold didn’t yet know the British very well. He seemed to think that if they didn’t explode when you hit them, it meant they didn’t intend to hit back. Portal, without exploding, took Arnold immediately to Churchill, who also seemed to be sweetly reasonable  Present at 10 Downing Street were Jack Towers, lend-lease coordi- nator Averell Harriman, and several British airmen, Arnold quickly explained the American decision to send the R.A.F. no bombers. He said America had plenty of exceptional young men who could fly American planes better than the young men of any other nation. One purpose of lend-lease, and of producing planes for foreign countries, had been to build productive capacity for the United States when it was needed. It was now needed. The American peo