es refused to drop, machine guns refused to fire, and a lot of other things simply didn’t work. Doolittle’s assignment was to make those things work, and quickly. T hough he didn't solve all the problems, he did so well that Arnold soon sent him to the Martin plant in Balumore to decide whether the Air Forces should cancel production of the B-26, twin-engine, medium bomber—a plane the Martin Company called “the Marauder” but a lot of pilots were beginning to call “the Murderer.” Too many fliers were crashing in it. Doolittle recommended a change in training methods “because we were training people to fly a normal airplane and the B-26 was not normal.” He admitted it was an “unforgiving” airplane, one that didn’t allow a pilot to make repeated mistakes, but he liked it. ;  When Arnold read his report, he called him in and said, “I want you to take a B-26, fly it under any and all conditions, then go down... and show those boys that flying this ship is no different from flying any other.”  When Doolittle flew to the B-26 transition school, all the student angement, had been lined up along the ramp. Suddenly  pilots, by prear they were amazed to see a B-26 coming in to land on only one engine, a  Thomas M. Coffey 246  force,” he said. “No unit could have done better  No item of loss can pr  perly be attributed to neglect or lack of care. You may take pride in their conduct.” But he did not explain why, despite adequate knowledge of what had happened in Hawaii several hours earlier, he had allowed so many planes to be sitting in tidy rows on the airfields when the Japanese attackers arrived. Arnold called the Philippine air commander, Gen. Lewis H. Brereton. He couldn't explain it either. He said they didn’t have enough airfields for dispersal. Arnold called the Hawaiian air commander, Gen. F. L. Martin. He said  eneral Short had ordered the planes to be grouped tightly together on the ground so it would be easier to guard them against possible sabotage. The Japanese bo