he listened to her, his mood brightened. Finally he said, “I was hoping you'd say all that. I wanted to hear you say it.”  When he returned to Patrick's office the next day and announced he had chosen the court-martial, the Air Service chief had a problem for which he was not prepared. In any court-martial of Arnold, Patrick's own lobbying activity, and his tolerance of his whole staff's activities for some time, would almost certainly be discussed. Furthermore, after all the bad publicity the Army had received during the Mitchell trial, it was doubtful that the General Staff would appreciate another one like it. Was Arnold certain, Patrick asked, that he perferred a court-martial, consid-  ering all its implications for the service and for his family? Yes, Arnold was certain.  In that case, General Patrick told Arne  1, he would take the matter up with higher authorities, and meanwhile, he was dismissed,  A few days later, Arnold was again summoned to Patrick's office. This time, the chief of the Air Service was more relaxed—almost jocular  “In your opinion,” he asked disarmingly, “What's the worst facility we have in the entire Air Service?  “Oh, there’s no doubt about that,” Arnold said. “It has to be Fort Riley, Kansas,”  General Patrick said, “Good. You are now the commanding officer of an observation squadron there.”  March 10, 1933—At 5:55 p.m., Colonel Arnold, now commanding officer at March Field near Riverside, California, felt the earth tremble beneath his feet, then begin to sway in what was obviously a major earthquake, Despite the intensity of the quake, it was quickly apparent that the March Field facilities had suffered no significant damage. Within the next hour, however, radio newscasters said the quake had wreaked havoc in several neighboring southern California cities, includ- ing Los Angeles, and had devastated Long Beach, where sixty-five people were reported dead, at least one thousand injured, and countless thousands homeless. Hundreds of bui