opular), rushed out onto tl student was about to crash. But when became more than ever fascinated by flying with me nearly every day.” Milling to the point of idolatry. “It was from hin he later declared. “He was a great pi world.”  Arnold’s admiration for the Wrig! personal, more distant, but no less wors| would invite both officers to dinner, an food, the young men would sit transfix: tell their story,  Thomas M. Colley #48  being controle by it Besides repeated takeoffs and landings, they tried tight tums, figure eights, climbs dive, and all the other maneuvers about which they had beard the bos in the hangar brag, One day Amold even ried racing his plane against the interurban elec train thatran pas the fied," At about fon fie mies an hour, the train Won Now that he had mastered the mehanicsof operating the aircraft, fing began to be Fun, but he dda’ mention that in his weekly reports, His May 20 leer to the chief ofthe Signal Corps, for example, indicates nothing but hard work  Sir fae the honor to rept th ollning operating the ight machin, during the week en fave wn the machin upby pel eleven tims for atta ine of 3 eather ot suitable or Bing aching Very respectfully Henry H. Arnold 2nd Li, 29h In  es, made in git da. |  ‘one hour and forty minutes, Dut  have been studying the construction  By mid-June, when they had completed their course of instruction ‘under the Wright brothers, Milling and Arnold were the only two fully ation Service, They had earned  trained and qualfed plo inthe certificates, soon tobe delivered, as U.S. Army Aviators Numbers One and Two, and, with abou fifteen hours of experience inthe ait, they were ready to instruct others inthe art offing, On June 14, having sent ne ofthe two new Wright Brmodel planes ahead of them, dismantled  and packed ina bowcar, they reported at what was to bec regular Army fing hol na se ear Cole ar, Marland about seven mies northeast of Washington, The Signal Corps was then in the process of taking over the tho