ions Unfortunately, the argument he had with his father about this issue caused a wound that never completely healed. Dr. Arnold, angry, depressed, and disappointed, got on a Greyhound bus and returned to Pennsylvania. A few months later,  on October 27, 1933, he died in Ardmore.  Arnold's unpopular sister Betty also dropped in occasionally while they were at March Field, and her visits were scarcely more successful than those of her father because Hap found it impossible to take seriously the subjects dearest to her—Arnold family history and the concerns of the D.A.R. (Daughters of the American Revolution), of which she was a devoted member. She was skillful at finding ways to insert Revolutionary War references into a conversation about some- thing else. Let someone name a town in Pennsylvania and she would vats to flight.” At this point, Arnold would say something like “Yes, indeed. We had  name a battle there “where our brave boys put the Red C  twelve thousand men and they had about four thousand.”  He also took an irreverent view of family history, much to her discomfort. Whenever she began talking about distinguished ancestors, he would launch into stories about one great-uncle who barely escaped hanging as a horse thief, and another, a whisky taster for the Port of Philadelphia, who worked too diligently one day and killed himself when he fell off a ladder that was propped against a vat. What bothered Betty most was his insistence that these stories were true. Her visits to the Arnolds were not long, but Bee, whose dislike of Betty never subsided, would have been happier if she had made them even shorter.  The visitors Bee enjoyed most at March Field were the movie stars whose help her husband solicited while he was stationed there. Keenly aware of the value of public relations, Arnold had decided that it wouldn't hurt the Air Corps to be associated in the public mind with some famous film celebrities, Because he had already met such enter- tainers as Will R