ntire force during the bad weather now approaching for bombing within as well as on top of the over- cast?”  Another message said: “When North African fighter groups escort bombers it is a matter of honor that hostile fighters shall not be  permitted to attack the escorted bombers. Do your fighters have that  spirit?”  With all this impatient encouragement bombarding him from Washington, and with new B-17 groups arriving now at an increased rate, Eaker decided in early October that he was ready once again to  Thomas M. Coffey # 22  returning from missions to Germany, he quickly developed an even sharper understanding of Eaker's plea. On September 3, Arnold himself  took up the chorus in a cable to Marshall: “Operations over Germany  conducted here during the past several weeks indicate definitely that we  must provide long-range fighters to accompany daylight bombardment missions.”  He followed this with another cable, apparently designed to cancel a  previous commitment to divert more fighters from England to North Africa for use in Italy:  Believe it would be a great mistake to divert P-38s from U.K. to North Africa at this time. The battle for complete destruction of German Air Force is approaching most critical stage, 8th Air Force must be built up rapidly—more rapidly than planned—to adminis- ter a knockout blow while they are groping for any respite they can get... . I realize the desire of Eisenhower to get as many airplanes  as possible but strongly recommend that the answer to his request for P-38s be “No,” repeat, “no.”  On this trip to England Arnold saw for the first time with his own eyes what a beating the B-17s were taking. But he also saw, from aerial photographs taken not by the Eighth Air Force but by the British, what a beating these Fortresses were administering to German industry. Despite such time as an invasion could be launched, the i supe  F , they would continue to be the only American weapons hurting Germany. His faith in daylight  bombing