had been fighting for six years, without trucks, often without food, and without getting supplies from anyone. If, as the Combined Chiefs said, they considered China impor- tant, why didn’t they send supplies? Russia got convoys. China should get at least ten percent of what Russia was getting. But when he asked Bissell for things, he got nothing but explanations as to why there weren't more planes and more tonnage.  “Tell your President,” he concluded, “that unless I can get these three things, I cannot fight this war and he cannot count on me to have our Army participate in the [Burma] campaigns.”  The three things he insisted on were an independent air force under Chennault, 10,000 tons of supplies per month over the Hump, and 500 more U.S. airplanes by the following November.  Arnold's reply was, for him, a model of patience, perhaps because Chiang’s demands “threw me back on my haunches for a few minutes.” But as he said to Stilwell later, he'd be damned if he would carry such a message back to the president. After the usual courtesies, he, too, talked tough.  “I am sincerely disappointed in your message to the President,” he said, “for it is not in any way in accordance with my understanding of what has occurred.”  He had already issued orders to increase the number of planes on the Hump run from 62 to 137. He planned to bring the tonnage up from 1,700 to 4,000 monthly by April and keep raising it as quickly as possible thereafter. Chennault had asked for medium bombers because he said heavy bombers couldn't operate in China. But heavy bombers could most certainly operate there, and he was sending 35 of them. chinese fighter squadron,  “I have outlined plans for creating one then another. . . . | also outlined plans for creating four bomber squad- rons in the same manner. ... These plans may bring 500 planes to China, but not by November. As yet I have not received your 1G A  ‘As to the independent air force for Chennault, I am not in a position to approve suc