here were another war, then simulating those conditions and inventing strategies or tactics to cope with them as best they could with the equipment they had. The bomb squadrons would conduct a mock bombardment raid and the fighter squadrons, taking off from other West Coast fields, would try to intercept them. All of this was done on the basis of calculated speculation. Everyone knew the aerial tactics in any future war would be unlike those in the Great War, but no one had formulated a tactical or strategic doctrine for future operations. Arnold, like everyone else in the Air Corps at this time, was groping toward such doctrines  Dissatisfied 5  h the mock bomb raids and fighter pursuits he was 154  1H  ‘gg ell et tel cha  np pr  Jott ia gs eam eae i ia al  ‘Jolene iil ea  lit,  A gi  tegen gc Sb  pclae lia Si  pti ei ae ol eet ia. sagt lca nye ea sli epost Heche,  jul ed Hl nl igo neice ep i, fag ah aoe glen nu cdl  ey ag ign ly aa ve a goin sete solue yao Tenc yale sec tibial oil  «aye ioe eo  pl iro ale gt  Aetna  cola dre, ey cn ln  fag peng  alo eed eee oa  rulntohwn iio  aye ete  i Ti tarde ya syria ging i fu fi ah elt bs i 0 ‘ilu fej rong  ide toded eau eli  iio i  alaagalaeortsid esata  *    Thomas M. Coffey 156  wanted urgently to talk to them, They hurried back to Arnold’s office  and when they reached Spaatz, he told them a frightening story  Thomas M. Coffey 156  wanted urgently to talk to them, They hurried back to Arnold’s office and when they reached Spaatz, he told them a frightening story. President Roosevelt, convinced that the Hoover administration had made fraudulent airmail contracts with the airlines, was canceling those contracts and asking the Air Corps to take over the job of flying the airmail. Furthermore, General Foulois had assured the president that  the Air Corps was capable of handling the assignment. Arnold was to be responsible for carrying the mail in the western section of the country,  which would include the routes connecting S