was now commanding general of the Thirteenth Air  Force in the Pacific, and Mary was alone at their Bethesda home. Arnold asked her to come down to Florida and she did so  Arnold was sufficiently recovered now to go for rides, so Bruce Simmons drove him to the Miami airport to meet her. But they didn't drive directly back to the Arnolds’ quarters. Instead they went out into the country, where he talked to her about Bee for a half hour. Simmons, who could hear the entire conversation, was impressed by Arnold's apparent concern about his wife.*°  Mary Streett was not surprised that he had called upon her for help because he often talked with her about family matters and problems that bothered him. He had confided in her his regret, for instance, that he had been able to spend so little time with his children when they were growing. She had always liked him and thought of him as a convivial man, the life of any party; and she had noticed happily that he hadn't been changed by the importance of his wartime job. He was undoubted- ly attractive and had an engaging personality, but she felt he did not know or understand women very well. Though he talked to her earnestly and seriously about Bee, she sensed that it was difficult for him to do so. He was bewildered about Bee’s recent behavior, but also deeply concerned for her and he wanted to know what he could do. Should he get someone to be with her when he was away? David, the only one of the children still at home, was too young for such a heavy responsibility  Mary Streett, hoping Bee would open up to her and talk about her troubles, stayed in Florida for several days, but there was no exchange of confidences between them. Bee seemed to be as cool to her as she was to Hap. The Arnolds’ daily life together was less than pleasant. And as if there weren't already enough friction between them, she was now accusing him of seeing other women. She had decided he was having an affair with one of her friends, and all the argumen