mmediately incorporated into the R.A.F. Though Arnold could see this as another move to siphon off American aircraft, thus further delaying the development of a real American air force, and though he had no intention of letting it happen, he refrained from arguing the issue at this meeting. Portal also said he thought it was the Navy’s job to attack Japan. This was a clear implication that whatever strength the Air Forces had to offer should be spent in the effort against Germany. Arnold didn't argue this issue either. He agreed with it in part, but he also recognized it asa potential matter of contention between his Air Forces and the Navy. He  251 * HAP hit : ; wig 2ighteen times before reaching primary or secondary targets. That was a rs  jy sig’ Company in the hope that they would be correc ted. He was too deeply tll  statistic difficult to answer. The only thing Arnold could do was to report  ach of the plane’s newfound flaws to Wright Field and to the Boeing  iyitdiy Committed to the plane to abandon it. thet He was just as deeply committed to the basic American air doctrine, divas Which the British were seriously questioning. His whole plan for a  massive bombing offensive against Germany, envisioned as the main  ai United States contribution to the war in Europe until an invasion of the iuoctat continent became feasible, was based on the belief, almost universally yc held in the Air Forces, that with the well-armed B-17 and the newly nie developed Norden bombsight (whic h during tests had reportedly placed  000 feet), it would be possible for huge  iva @ bomb in a barrel from : ; init armadas to conduct pinpoint raids against precisely selected German ihaiuhi! targets in broad daylight. The Bri : iii! Were reiterating that such tactics would not work against German  rmans had failed  sh, who had tried daylight bombing,  defenses. And they were also pointing out that the G in their attempts to use daylight bombing against British defenses. If he wanted to bom