e called Bee and said,  “I'm sorry you married such a bum  “What are you talking about?” she asked  162  163 * HAP  “Didn't you hear the report that Chaney got the star?  “Yes, I did,” she said, “but that doesn’t make you a bum.”  He could not conceal his deep discouragement. “I don’t know whether it’s worth going on or not,” he said. “I don't know what's ahead for me.” But Arnold's discouragement never seemed to last long. This time he turned it into anger, went to Washington at the first opportunity, and marched right in to see General MacArthur, who was still chief of staff and whom he had known since 1912, when they both lived in Washington’s Army and Navy Club, What, he demanded, did MacAr- thur have against him?  “T have to know,” he said, “because my whole career depends on it.”  MacArthur seemed bewildered until Arnold explained his visit. “I was told I v  MacArthur took some papers from his desk and glanced through them. “Your name wasn’t even on the list,” he said.  Arnold had been less than warm to Benny Foulois ever since the Mitchell trial, at which Foulois openly opposed Mitchell. After this episode, Arnold was never more than polite to him,* But despite his anger, he stopped even suggesting that he might quit the Air Corps. He would not give Foulois that satisfaction.  s to have this air star,” he said, “and Chaney got it.”  At about the time when Arnold was hinting he might quit the Air rps, his daughter, Lois, ironically, was writing home that she might quit the University of Arizona in Tucson, where she had enrolled that fall after two years at a Riverside junior college.* She had done well at the junior college—earning straight A grades—and she had been  welcomed into a sorority shortly after her arrival in Tucson, but she had also begun drinking as soon as she was old enough to date men who could buy drinks for her, and she was now beginning to find that drinking was more fun than studying. Besides that, her fellow students at Arizona were simply