and to teach flying, they hadn't been told why. No one in the Army had explained their mission  to them, perhaps because almost no one in the Army outside the Signal  Corps believed they had a mission, Even within the Signal Corps few people considered the airplane more than a toy. At best it was seen only as an observation platform, somewhat superior to balloons because its speed and maneuverability made it less vulnerable to gunfire, but still limited by the problem of communications  “Without radio air-to-ground communications,” Arnold recalled, “the rapid delivery of intelligence still depended largely on horsemen. We, the airmen, were to jot down what we saw on brightly colored pieces of paper and drop the weighted paper to the ground, where a Cavalryman, galloping hell for leather, would pick it up and take it back to the Command Post.”  The young fliers at College Park were not satisfied with such a limited concept of their usefulness. If the War Department was unable to define their mission, they decided they had better define it for them- selves. What they should do, they agreed, was to find ways of develop- ing the airplane into a military weapon as best they could. To this end they kept flying “a bit higher or a bit farther” eac h day, and mounting new gadgets on their machines in an effort to increase their usefulness.  On July 1, Arnold piloted Milling all the way to the outskirts of Washington, about seven miles, and back. On July 7, Milling outdid him by flying Kirtland to Washington Barracks, a distance of eight miles. That same afternoon, Arnold, unable to cross the perimeter of the field because he was officer of the day, decided to get above it, and in the 260 feet. On August  process established a military altitude record of 3,  18, he broke that record by flying to a height of 4,167 feet.* That same  no im, ing  flat  om the hit  ies ont  he 1ow  he em me ive. too  ‘en, hy,  itor the »wl- he self it at tive hat this  nics  rest ven sof ted ght v