dstrong, often tactless, scornful of slow, conservative Army methods, critical of superiors, single-mindedly relentless in pushing his own beliets, and impatient with those who failed to share his vision. Yet despite all this, he rose through the officer ranks as the years passed until, in September 1938, he became chief of the Air Corps. To the surprise of many military men, including Arnold himself, the Army establishment proved itself sufficiently flexible and tolerant of his independence to advance him to the top.  How did he manage to climb so high? He must have been doing something right. Even the more conservative Army generals, many of whom had been involved in restraining or chastising him from time to time, would concede that much. Though he might defy them, he was able to make them admire him. Though he sometimes ignored their discipline, he knew how to maintain discipline among those he com- manded. Tough, impatient, and exacting with the men who worked under him, he nevertheless managed to command their respect and even, to an amazing degree, their affection. Almost puritanically strict, he could also be boyish, fun-loving, and engaging. Single-minded and unswerving in his aims, he could be flexible in achieving them. At all  al, he cherished an imaginative vision of air power and air  times practic to most of his contemporaries, beyond the  transportation that seemed, realm of possibility. While he often ignored Army procedures and was considered an abysmal administrator, he was unequalled in his ability to get things done, The contradictions within his commodious personality seemed often to make him uncomfortable, yet he was able to reconcile  those contradictions and to exercise his unique abilities within the Army  establishment, which he so often criticized and defied.  Thomas M. Coffey 10  Department and Arnold on one side, Morgenthau and our beleaguered European allies on the other. It was a struggle that had continued through 1939 and was reachi