n, scare Adolf Hitler one goddamned bit. What he wanted was airplanes. It was airplanes that would have an influence on Hitler  Edison, Stark, Woodring, and Craig were taken aback by this outburst but quickly recovered and began to press for their own needs If the country must have more airplanes, it must also have a bigger Army and Navy  He hadn't called them in, the president said, to talk about the Army and Navy. They were there to talk about airplanes and how to get them. Aircraft factories would have to be enlarged and assembly-line methods inaugurated. The existing procurement bill would have to be changed and contracts arranged on a cost-plus basis so that manufacturers would be assured of fair profits as an incentive  He then called on Arnold for an assessment of foreign aircraft strength, and Arnold estimated that France had only 600 serviceable 200; Italy, 2,000 first-line planes and 1,000 second-line. But Germany, he said, had 6,000 combat  military planes; England, between 1,500 and  planes plus 2,000 in reserve.  Arnold also pressed home the point that a large number of airplanes did not necessarily indicate air power. “The strength of an air force cannot be measured in terms of airplanes only,” he said. “Other things are essential—productive capacity of airplanes, of pilots, of mechanics, and bases from which to operate. A sound training program is essential to provide replacements.” And there would have to be a large, continuous flow of replacements, both machines and men.  It seemed to Arnold that the president understood all this, but what he kept talking about was airplanes, not pilots or schools or air bases. In addition to the mere 178 planes provided in the 1940 budget, he wanted another 10,000, which would cost, in his estimate, $300 million, And he  185 « HAP  wanted the factories enlarged to a capacity of 20,000 planes per year, because Hitler's potential enemies, especially France and England, would soon be desperately  ger to buy planes fro