ylight bombing? “I think so. I can’t document it but I think he was beginning to worry about it because  the attrition rate was too high.”  Having defended it so staunc hly, however, Arnold had to do everything possible to make it wor k. On August 31, he flew to England to help and encourage his beleaguered friend, Ira Eaker. The Schweinfurt-Regensburg raid had so shattered the Eighth Air Force that it had been unable to launch another mission for ten days, and then, on August 27, only as far as Calais. The day Arnold arrived, the B-17s went to Paris on another “milk run.” But while he was there, on September 6, Eaker was able to piece together a fleet of 338, which he sent to Suattgart. Again the big bombers were savagely attacked and 45 of them went  down.  J Eaker had been pleading steadily for long-range fighter support, and in late August, before leaving for London, Arnold had promised him some P-38s and P-51s, but he couldn't say when they would arrive. When Arnold got to England and saw the condition of the planes  Thomas M. Coffey *  In a briefing one day to prepare him for a Joint Chiefs meeting, he read what his staff thought he should know about the subjects on the agenda, then began asking questions so penetrating and so difficult nobody in the room could answer them, Finally he threw everybody out of the room. “Do your lesson,” he said. “You haven't done your lesson.”  “He never tried to win a popularity contest,” Dean recalled. “I have seen four-star generals time and again backing out of his office saying “Yes, sir, yes, sir, yes, sir.’ But Dean also concluded, “He wasn’t a mean person. He [simply] could not tolerate incompetence, laziness, [or] poor judgment.”  Among the visitors to his office one day was a group of five men led sen. Dave Grant, the Air Forces chief flight surgeon, and Col. Howard Rusk, who had developed the Air Forces program for rehabili-  by  tation of wounded men. With them were three young pilots, limping noticeably. All five ha