ing. That afternoon, when he came home with  Dargue from the field, Bee took one look at him and knew what had happened.  “Well, did you have a good trip today?” she asked  He gave her a funny look, a mixture of sheepish pleasure at what he had done, amazement at being so easily found out, and concern about her reaction. “How did you know?” he asked  ‘I've got awfully good eyes,” she said, not bothering to tell him that the fair skin of his face was sunburned except for the area that would have been covered by goggles.  He made no attempt to deny it, though he admitted he would have preferred to withhold it from her because of her pregnancy. The notion that pregnant women were pitifully frail creatures was prevalent in those days.  “It's perfectly all right,” she said. “If you want to do it, go ahead and do it. That's your life.”  Only those who were present would know whether there was any displeasure in her tone of voice. Bee Arnold was no more c lever than her husband at hiding her true feelings. But however she may have felt at  the time about his return to the air, she never threw it up to him later  Thomas M. Coffey 86  There were twenty-three officers with Military Aviator or Junior Military Aviator ratings in San Diego when Arnold arrived, in addition to twenty-five students, One of the rated pilots, he was happy to learn, was his friend from the Philippines Bert Dargue, now also a captain, and officer in charge of taining. Since Dargue and Arnold were renewing their friendship in an atmosphere dominated by airplanes, At nold could not help feeling a certain pressure to return to flying. His retirement from the air, in the face of danger, had left a bitter sense of failure, which, for his own peace of mind, he ought to expunge. For more than four months he resisted the pressure to fly again, but eventually, whether or not he had to fly as a means of redeeming his self-respect was no longer the compelling question. € ‘confronted every day by the sound of engi