“In England,” he said, “they could be used against the Germans every day.”  King said, “We must keep the theater saturated.”  “What is the saturation point?" Arnold demanded. “Certainly not several hundred [planes] sitting on airdromes where they can't be used.”  At this point, Marshall announced that Arnold was planning to go to the Pacific to look into the situation for himself. Admiral Leahy quickly interrupted the hopeless argument to suggest that the decision be postponed until Arnold’s return.**  Arnold was so exasperated by the entire matter that he wrote in his diary the next day: “The Navy is hard pressed at Guadalcanal. It does need a shot in the arm. It needs it badly. But in my opinion the shot can best come by getting new leaders who know and understand modern warfare."  The next day, before Arnold's flight to the Pacific, Marshall called him in and gave him some fatherly advice. When he got out there into  287 * HAP  that unfriendly naval atmosphere, he should first of all listen. He should not get mad. And he should “let the other fellow tell his story.”  Arnold flew to Hawaii on September 21, to talk with Nimitz at Pearl Harbor. The cool, shrewd Navy commander of the entire Pacific was surprisingly optimistic and quite convinced that Guadalcanal could be held. He said the Japanese had only half as many men there as the Americans, and their shipping losses had been prohibitive, Within the past two or three months, including the Battle of Midway, they had also lost 650 planes. The bombardment of Germany, he said, was “of no use."** The war could be won in the Pacific.  On the twenty-third, Arnold and his party, which included Col Charles Cabell  east of Austra  landed at New Caledonia (south of the Solomons and  a), where Admiral Ghormley had established his head- quarters on his flagship. Ghormley and his air strategist, Adm. John S. McCain, were awaiting Arnold with what seemed to him “blood in their eyes.”  This was his theater, Ghormley informed Ar