inaugurated. The existing procurement bill would have to be changed and contracts arranged on a cost-plus basis so that manufacturers would be assured of fair profits as an incentive.  He then called on Arnold for an assessment of foreign aircraft strength, and Arnold estimated that France had only 600 serviceable military planes; England, between 1,500 and 2,200; Italy, 2,000 first-line planes and 1,000 second-line. But Germany, he said, had 6,000 combat planes plus 2,000 in reserve.  Arnold also pressed home the point that a large number of airplanes did not necessarily indicate air power. “The strength of an air force cannot be measured in terms of airplanes only,” he said. “Other things are essential—productive capacity of airplanes, of pilots, of mechanics, and bases from which to operate. A sound training program is essential to provide replacements.” And there would have to be a large, continuous flow of replacements, both machines and men.  It seemed to Arnold that the president understood all this, but what he kept talking about was airplanes, not pilots or schools or air bases. In addition to the mere 178 planes provided in the 1940 budget, he wanted  another 10,000, which would cost, in his estimate, $300 million, And he  185 « HAP  wanted the factories enlarged to a capacity of 20,000 planes per year, because Hitler's potential enemies, especially France and England, would soon be desperately eager to buy planes from the United States.  Arnold, suddenly alarmed at the prospect of having 10,000 planes and not enough fields to keep them or pilots to fly them, suggested immediate expansion of the Air Corps to 7,500 combat planes plus 2,500 training planes. In this plan the president concurred.  Arnold was elated at the end of this meeting. He and Colonel Burns virtually hustled General Craig into a car and drove him to Arnold's  office for what Arnold called “a get-rich-quick course in the clements  necessary to make an air fore Though they had both been wo