r Forces fighters were being wasted in Europe. (Actually very few bombers or fighters had yet reached Europe.) Mc  tain told him, “Here is where they can be of use. Here is the only place where they can get results. MacArthur may need them, but we need them more than he does.”  Arnold could remember the days, in the not-far-distant past, when neither MacArthur nor the Navy could see much need for big bombers, but on that score he held his tongue.  Gen. Alexander M. Patch, the Army's ground forces commander in the area, who had accompanied Arnold to the meeting, said when they left that as far as he could see, the Navy had no logistic plan. He told Arnold he had already given the Navy and Marines twenty thousand  pairs of shoes and tons of other items out of his own reserves be  ause they had undersupplied themselves; and they were short of both airfields and gasoline simply because they had miscalculated their needs.  (From his visit to Ghormley’s headquarters, Arnold emerged with only one piece of good news, and that was personal rather than military Ernie Snowden, Lois’s husband, had been on the carrier Wasp when it was sunk earlier in September, but he had survived and was thought to be en route to San Diego.)  From New Caledonia, Arnold flew on to Australia,  50 miles west, and landed at an airport 50 miles beyond Brisbane because it was the  only one with runways long enough for the B-24 in which he was traveling. George Kenney met him and flew him, in a much smaller Lockheed Hudson, back to Brisbane, where MacArthur was waiting There was nothing fancy about Kenney’s plane. It had no passenger seats: Arnold sat on a coil of rope, Cabell sat on a box of ammunition, and Kenney squatted between them. But for Arnold, this flight was one of the few reassuring legs of the entire trip. Though Kenney had been in Australia only a month, after replacing Brett, he assured Arnold he was having no trouble with MacArthur now, and didn’t intend to have any (As Arnold later le