1918, the General Staff had presented that post to another ground soldier, Maj. Gen, C. T, Menoher of the Infantry, and he intended to keep it, leaving Mitchell with a very subordinate role as his assistant. It might be argued that this was Mitchell's own fault, that if he had wanted the job he should have hurried home to fight for it, as Arnold had advised, But the General Staff knew all there was to know about Mitchell, whether he was at home or in Europe, and the fact that they chose someone else was interpreted as a sign that they didn’t share his ideas and wanted to keep him as much as possible out of power and out of the public eye,  Arnold, who had been disappointed to see Mitchell passed over, was dismayed to see the chief's job go to another man who was “without any aviation experience or qualifications."” Menoher's appointment, com bined with the drastic cutbacks in Air Service personnel and budget deepened his pessimism about the future of Army aviation.    101 * HAP  Washington. As assistant director of the Air Service during the war, he did have a personal plane assigned to him—a speedy, French-built  ”  101 * HAP  Washington. A:  sistant director of the Air Service during the war, he did have a personal plane assigned to him—a speedy, French-built LePere—but he was so busy in headquarters he was able to use it only on inspection trips. He was allowed to take it with him when he transferred to San Diego, and he was happy about that because it was a much “hotter” airplane than the DeHavilland DH-4s and Curtiss JNs ( Jennys) that everyone else at Rockwell had to fly. Though the DH-4s had been effective during the war, they were now obsolete. The LePere was a streamlined craft, more advanced than the DH, more powerful, and about ten miles an hour faster. Arnold, who was feeling increasingly comfortable about flying, used his LePere at every opportunity, to the envy of all the other pilots on the base  One day, in the early summer of 1919, when he was landi