ted instrument-flying experiments with the P-40, which resulted procedures for bad: weather flying, There airplanes that Doolittle couldn't do, but  theirs was the on!  in a whole new set of training  were few things connected with to build planes was one of them, and some  teaching the auto-makers nold’s warning that auto-builders didn't  problems were never solved. Art  make good plane-builders would eventually prove to be quite accurate  Despite Arnold’s endless prodding of the plane-makers, he still had,  of 1941, an Air Corps of only nine operational groups And he was still accusing  England. On March  in the spring —fewer than five hundred planes in total  President Roosevelt of sending too many planes to 10 he found out that the president had “objected very strenuously” (0 a  nd his companions, they  own to business. First of  ‘erman submarine cam  + ie eho  Thomas M. Coffey  March 6 memorandum he had written for Marshall, a memo which decried his continued lack of combat aircraft and suggested that England was getting more planes than the United States could spare.'* Arnold didn’t seem able to make the president understand “the necessity for an air force in being” as opposed to an air force in prospect. Perhaps the time had come to approach the problem from another angle. He decided to go to England himself and find out firsthand what the British really needed, what they were doing with what they had already received, and what they could tell him about America’s needs in the event that the United States entered the war  Bee, Lois, and her husband, Ernie Snowden, drove him to New York on April 9 so he could catch the Pan American Clipper to Bermuda on the first leg of his flight. Lois and Ernie were then living in Pensacola, Florida, where he was stationed, but had come north on leave for a visit  In New York, Arnold made connections with Maj. Elwood P. “Pete” Quesada, his aide and companion on the trip. Quesada, who was well known in the Air Corps for his fl