his. During his first tour of duty in the Philippines, Betty had offered to do likewise, but he had been able to put her off that time by telling her he had no house to keep; he was in the jungle on a mapping mission This time, with a new bride, he would have to have a house, but he was sure Bee would be able to keep it nicely.  Betty was shocked when he declined her offer, so shocked that on the wedding day, an hour before Bee was to leave for the church, she received word that her soon-to-be sister-in-law had again changed her mind and decided once more she would not be a member of the wedding. Bee, who was getting to know Betty better every day, was less than totally upset by this news. She was surprised, though, when she arrived at the church and found that Betty, having changed her mind one last time, was there.  It was a big wedding with six bridesmaids, six groomsmen, a ¢ hurch full of people, and a nervous bridegroom, After the ceremony, which came off smoothly, Tommy Milling, the best man, and Lois Pool, the maid of honor, perpetrated a bit of harmless mischief by getting away to the reception in the bride’s limousine, leaving the second best for Hap and Bee. Back at the Pool home, as the crowd began arriving for the reception, the younger and sportier gentlemen were discreetly informed that they could find something better than cake and lemonade upstairs in Sidney Pool’s private sitting room. Pool had always kept a full cellar. He himself drank Scotch and water sparingly. His fun-loving wife, Annie, whom he called “Matie,” drank gin, less sparingly but not excessively, And visitors were usually offered a wide choice. In his sitting  Thomas M. Coffey * 74  be a Baptist, and when she didn’t choose to do something, she could be as strong-minded as Betty. Trying to sound friendly and reasonable, she said, “Betty, I couldn't be true to myself if I became a Baptist.”  “Well, every wife in the Arnold family becomes a Baptist,” Betty insisted, ignoring the fact th