th the idea, and Arnold was soon making regular flights over the forests of the Far West from the Cascades and the Olympic Mountains, down past the Sierra  Nevada and the coast ranges as far as the Sierra Madre. Besides being useful in spotting fires, the patrol provided good training for his pilots. It was such a success that the Army continued it for several years, after which the Forestry Service itself maintained it.  Thomas M. Coffey * 100  His pessimism increased his impatience, and he didn’t hesitate to display his short temper in front of any superiors he considered responsible for the plight of the Air Service. He didn't even spare the ewton D. Baker, who came to San Diego in early 1919  secretary of war, } on an inspection tour, one purpose of which was to impress upon all military commanders that they had to stop spending money now that the war had ended. He told Arnold, while they were driving around Rockwell Field, that he must cut the base budget to a bare, subsistence minimum. Arnold bridled at this. Perhaps he was already angry in anticipation of what Baker would order him to do. As they passed a group of barracks under construction, he pointed out that they were actually complete except for the roofs. Surely Baker didn’t mean that such projects, in which a lot of money and effort had been spent, should be allowed to go to waste. Surely he didn’t mean that these barracks, for instance, should be left without roofs?  As it happened, that was exactly what Baker meant Construction was to stop immediately. In Arnold’s opinion such a policy was absurd, and he didn’t hesitate to say so in strong words. Lieutenant Eaker, who was in the back seat listening to this, was astonished to hear a temporary colonel talking so testily to the secretary of war.”  Eaker and Spaatz weren't the only men Arnold commanded at Rockwell who were to become his lifelong friends. One day, early in the year, Eaker came into Arnold’s office and said, “Colonel, there’s a man down at