s the ideal sat Allison, he also 40, which resulted ather flying. There tle couldn’t do, but  of them, and some wuto-builders didn’t  » be quite accurate  nakers, he still had, operational groups e was still accusing england. On March  ry strenuously” to a  25 * HAP  was still convinced, from his World War I experience, that they would never develop the knack for it, but William S Knudsen, an auto industry expert in mass production, was by that time coordinating the nation’s rearmament production program, and he thought otherwise. To keep an eye on the plane-making efforts of the auto makers, Arnold sent to Detroit one of the great aeronautical geniuses of all time, Maj. Jimmy Doolittle.  For several year  _ Doolittle had been a civilian working for the Shell Oil Company, but he had never dropped his Air Corps connections. In August 1939, after a trip to Europe, he had come to Arnold with a report that predicted the imminent outbreak of war, confirmed every- thing Lindbergh had said about Hitler's air force, and described its strength in terms that the war later proved uncannily accurate With this report, Doolittle had also offered his services to the Air Corps.  “| want you back on active duty,” Arnold had said, “but it will take  an act of Congress to get you back.”  Doolittle was then a reserve major and the Army was forbidden by law to call field-grade officers back to extended active duty. By July 1940 Congress had revised the law, thanks largely to Arnold’s lobbying, and  sserve officer to return to uniform  Doolittle was the first field-grade Arnold had immediately sent him to the Allison Engine Corporation in Indianapolis, a rather self-satisfied subsidiary of General Motors, which was not very rapidly turning out engines that were not very good. Since theirs was the only large, liquid-cooled engine available in the United States, and since they weren’t likely to have any competition in the near future, the people at Allison had to be coddled, wheedled, thre