. Coffey * 268  sic] that need to be operated on. He rightly insists on going through  with his new assignment but when he gets back, | hope you can give him enough time off in Texas to have them taken out.”  One day Arnold got a call from Clark Gable asking for an appoint- ment. He had met Gable during the filming of Mutimy on the Bounty and they had become good friends. But when Gable arrived for his appoint- ment, he was accompained by an MGM press agent who did most of the talking  “We'd like to have Mr. Gable serve in the Air Forces,” the press agent said  Arnold said, “Great. He can do a job for us.”  The press agent, perhaps remembering the enlistment of Elliott Roosevelt as a captain, said, “We'd like him to go in as a captain.”  Arnold said politely, “I don’t think that’s the route to go.”  The press agent tried to persuade him. Arnold became angry. Finally he turned to the silent Gable and, perhaps forgetting the enlistment of Captain Roosevelt, said, “You just don't come into a service  as a captain when you've had no military experience.”  ble called  Arnold and said, “I’ve been thinking of what you told me and I agree, I  Gable and the press agent departed, but that night,  should start as a private. He did so, and served with such distinction in the Eighth Air Force  that he had risen to the rank of major by war's end.  The need for technological and mechanical advances was so appar- ent as the early combat reports began arriving in Washington that Arnold decided to launch a new Air Forces proving ground under his direct control at Eglin Field, Florida. Though it might duplicate some of the work being done at Wright Field, he didn’t care because he was perpetually annoyed at the Wright Field engineers, They were always telling him why his ideas wouldn't work. He wanted an agency that would find out whether his ideas worked by trying them. He chose Gen. Grandison Gardner, a veteran of the materiel division, to command the installation, and a few days af