next meeting. At their request, Arnold agreed to  cancel his off-limits order, but for the next several months he had his  men paid in two-dollar bills so the Riverside shopkeepers would have continuing reminder that March Field soldiers provided a. sizable portion of their income.  Not content with this standoff, Arnold then set about trying to establish a positive relationship with the people of Riverside. He instructed each of his officers to join at least one of the town's service clubs, whether Kiwanis, Lions, Rotary, or any other. And he arranged special days for townspeople to visit the base, so he and his men could preach the Air Corps gospel to them, Henceforth, he had no more trouble with Riverside.**  In January 1932, the Arnolds received a series of sad letters from Hap'’s father, who, having lost all of his cash in the crash of his bank, was now on the verge of losing most, if not all, of the highly mortgaged houses and acreage he had bought through the years.  t would seem as though the nightmare of 1931 was being prolonged into 1932,” he wrote them on January 16, He was willing to sell off some of his houses to raise cash in the hope of saving others, but “just now there is no market at any price.” The second anniversary of his wife’s death was two days ahead, on the eighteenth, and he confided that it further depressed him. “I shall never cease to miss the companionship of an undying love of more than fifty years.”  By early 1933, it was evident that all of Dr. Arnold's property was lost, even though Hap had guaranteed a loan for him in a desperate effort to save at least some of it. One house after another was foreclosed because the doctor's tenants had no money to pay rent and he therefore had no money to make his mortgage installments. Out of compassion for him, Hap and Bee invited him to visit them, and in March he agreed, When he arrived they soon found that while he had lost his money, he  HAP  had lost very little of his irascibility or his co