he big guns around him began s, he could hardly ignore it. On the yuted out of “bed”—the hard rock cet, under a shelter half—when the : island. “Search lights turned night uously. Red and green lights were g that they had just opened or just barded by the enemy's fleet. The 10,000 yards out at sea. While all he hostile fleet, a small boat towing 4 troops sneaked around toward :ryation until it was almost past and pon it made even the port-holes *re called out. All the boats disap- rch lights were turned off one by  iat the defense of Corregidor had ere was an ominous aspect to this n his letters, perhaps because he ae Corregidor guns were repelling llery captain named Harrison Hall id and mule, up to the supposedly of the entrance to Manila Bay  egidor, getting hits on  fired on Cc tely, his accomplishment failed to ight years later when the Japanese,  Kinley, Arnold may very well have  Thomas M. Coffey 80  dictating the order for “the attack that was to break through the defenders’ lines” and make the entire maneuver a success. Arnold had now watched Marshall in action for a few days and his view of the man had already changed: “Marshall still holds the job as main guy for this detachment and tells the colonels where to take their regiments and what to do with them. However, everyone agrees that he has the ability to handle the situation so there is no hard feeling.”*  On February 4, the maneuver was ended, and a few days later Arnold returned to Bee, who was well on the way to recovery. He was saddened to learn that the baby she had aborted would have been a boy, but he was delighted that Bee herself was as good as new. On February 10, they were able to follow a custom they had instituted the previous October—celebrating each monthly return of their wedding date  Having watched George Marshall in action during the entire Batangas invasion maneuver, Arnold now entertained an awesome respect for him. “That man,” he said to Bee, “will one day be the Army Chief of Sta