telegram warned his aide, “you're in trouble.”  A few days after his return to Washington, Arnold was subjected to a major embarrassment, which raised new questions about the Air Forces and the B-17, the weapon upon which Arnold was building his major hopes, On June 3 and 4, the Navy scored its great air victory at Midway, sinking Japan's four best carriers and reversing the trend of the  war in the Pacific. Also in that battle were fourteen B-17s from the Seventh Air Force's 11th Bombardment Group, which had been sent to Midway in anticipation of the battle. The day after the battle, as soon as the scope of the victory was apparent, the Seventh Air Force claimed that the Fortresses had scored twenty-two direct hits from about 20,000 feet, many of them on carriers, battleships, and cruisers. When the facts were determined, these claims had to be scaled down to one probable hit on a transport  As Arnold said later, he and other advocates of high-altitude  precision bombing “were criticized from all around the compass,” not only for the sorry performance but for the outrageous claims. “[We] were called upon, time and time again, to make a restudy to be sure we were on the right track. Should we continue our high-altitude precision bombing, when we might have been making dive bombing or low altitude attacks?”"” He and his B-17s were now under pressure both in the Pacific and in Europe. Ironically, Adm, Chester Nimitz, the Navy's Pacific commander, began asking King to procure more B-17s and B-24s, but not as bombers. Like the British, he wanted to use them simply for patrol.  The concept of daylight bombing came under further critical scrutiny after thirteen B-24s led by Col. Harry A. Halverson bombed 2, from a base in North Africa.  the Ploesti oil fields in Rumania on June The plan for this mission, brilliandy conceived by Col. Orvil Ander- son and approved by both Arnold and Marshall, was to cut oil supplies to the German armies in Russia by knocking out the huge Ru