bergh came to his home for dinner. Arnold was alone. Bee and David were at Nag’s Head, North Carolina, where the climate gave Bee at least some relief from her hay fever. Lindbergh brought with him Col. Truman Smith,who had been for four years the American military attaché at the embassy in Berlin. The three men, like most Americans that same evening, talked about the appalling situation in Europe. Hitler had now signed an alliance with Italy and a ten-year nonagression pact with Russia And of more immediate concern, he had issued an ultimatum to Poland that was actually a demand that the Poles  completely surrender, Though Arnold and Lindbergh didn’t yet know it  as they sat down to dinner, the Polish government, that evening, had  rejected Hitler's demand. The next morning at dawn, the German army  invaded Poland  Thomas M. Coffey 2  >  sent to a branch of the service his father loathed. If he was not welcome in his father’s branch, it must mean that, for some reason, his father was rejecting him.  As he prepared to leave the Naval Academy, depressed and miserable, he wasn’t sure what to think of himself. It seemed that whenever he had failed at something in the past, his father had said not “I'm sorry,” but “What the hell are you going to do now?” Less than cager to hear that again, Bruce decided not to return to Washington  His father, anticipating this possibility, sent an aide to see him. ‘I i aide, a captain, was sympathetic to the young man because he too had once left the Naval Academy under similar circumstances. “I'll es  you're getting ready to sign onto a ship,” he said to Bruce. “That's what I almost did.”  Bruce admitted it was exactly what he intended.  “You can do that if you wish,” the captain said, “but you've got to face the old man sometime. It’s easier to get it over with right si =  Sufficiently persuaded, Bruce returned home. His mother pve His father bellowed, “What the hell are you ge xing to do now? al  Nothing had changed. “I'd like to tr