e obstinately and also that they should be ac capable of night bombing  I have never suggested that they [the Americans] sh couraged” by us, that is to say,  heir to persist vely urged to become  Arnold did not know about these harsh assessments Churchill had been making privately of the American air effort in England. He did know, of course, that the British still disliked the B-17 and wanted America to produce Lancasters; and that they still wanted the Eighth Air Force to begin nighttime rather than daytime bombing. But he was convinced they would change their minds about both the B-17 and day bombing once the African campaign was over and the Fortress fleet in England could be built to its intended strength. Arnold had never envisioned the Eighth Air Force attacking targets in  Tmany with a force as small as it now had in England. He had hoped by now to have several hundred B-17s over Europe, but the diversion of planes to the Pacific, and to Churchill's own Torch operation, had kept the size of the Eighth Air Force down to less than one hundred heavy bombers.‘ The  whole concept of daylight precision bombing depended upon fleets so  HAP  large and with so much fire power and bomb power that enemy defenses would be unable to cope with them. In his view, the daylight bombing theory hadn't yet been tested because he hadn't yet been able to send over enough planes to try it properly.  4 transport, Arnold, Marshall, and their aides landed at Bathurst in West Africa, where Gen. C. R. Smith and Gen. Tom Hardin of the A-T.C.  On the way to Casablanca in a new four-engine Douglas C-!  were waiting to greet them. Smith was in Africa because Arnold had learned, in early December 1942, that the Navy planned to develop an  air transport service, which, in effect, would duplicate the A.T.C.? A day or so later, Arnold met Smith in the Munitions Building corridor and said, “I want to see you.”  They went into Arnold’s office where he said, “We've got to do something about Dakar