t.  Arnold, perhaps recalling Marshall's advice, held his temper All he  wanted, he said, was some information. The personal tension seemed to  him to ease after that, but he still felt Ghormley showed the strain of the  military situation. He had been so busy, the admiral said, he hadn't been able to leave his headquarters for about a month,  Marshall or no Marshall, Arnold wasn't going to let such an Maybe that was the cause of some of Ghormley’s  opportunity pas: troubles, he suggested. No man could sit continuously in a small office,  fighting a war, Ghormley’s immediate concern was logistics. He had eighty ships in  without suffering mentally, physically and nervously.”  the harbor at New Caledonia that couldn't be unloaded. And Guadalca- nal was short of gasoline, but it was difficult to get his ships into the harbor there past the Japanese sea and air pickets.  The image of eighty ships loaded with supplies standing idle in the harbor when “the planners of Torch were going nearly crazy in their search for ships” staggered Arnold. Why couldn't the ships be unload- ed? One of Ghormley’s aides said it was because they didn't know what was on them, so they'd have to be sent to New Zealand, unloaded, then reloaded with new manifests.  Before Arnold had quite digested this, McCain informed him that the Navy had to have B-17s, and a lot of them, for long-range patrol The Navy's PBY flying boats simply wouldn't do. T he Navy also needed Army fighters to stop the Japanese bombers that were sinking American  Thomas M. Coffey * 286  280 en route, while the Japanese, according to best intelligence esti- mates, had only 535 planes there. Furthermore, Arnold insisted, there weren't enough air fields to accommodate any more planes  He considered the Navy's adventure on Guadalcanal a local action that got in the way of the overall war plan—a plan to which he still dung even if Marshall, King, Churchill, and Roosevelt had abandoned it.  “Though everyone agrees that success in