ficers  “Arnold would come in as an observer,” Knerr said, “and the  argument that I was carrying on got pretty hot and heavy. I looked toward Arnold for a little support but I got none. I personally believe it was because he had ambitions and he didn’t want to get in the wrong. v  Knerr’s feelings in the matter could have been colored by his resentment of the fact that Arnold had been the only flier to win proper recognition for the 1934 Alaska flight. Knerr might also have felt that Arnold, when he left the G.H.Q. Air Force to become assistant chief of Air Corps, had defected to the enemy and had thereafter lost sight of the G.H.Q.’s needs. And Knerr definitely disagreed with testimony Arnold offered before a congressional committee in July 1936 that the Air Corps was not yet ready to become a separate air force, All of these  Thomas M. Coffey 174  for such an accident, people around Wright Field began to talk about it being “too big for a man to handle,” and people in Washington, especially Navy people, who had always argued that the long-range bomber was a foolish waste of money, advertised the tragedy as sufficie  t proof that they were right. As a result of such uncertainty, the Boeing 299 was suddenly eliminated from the competition it had  already won, and the Air Corps, on November 8, 1935, decided to buy  cighty-two Douglas B-18s, The future Flying Fortress was now almost dead, but not quite. On January 17, 1936, Boeing was awarded a  contract to build thirteen Y1B-17s, and the first one reached Langley  Field near Washington on March 1, 19%  Between then and June 30, 1939, more than two years later, the Air Corps purchased only one additional B-17. Inasmuch as this airplane became the Corps’ most powerful weapon during the entire war in Europe, such a delay in its procurement and development must seem difficult to fathom. But the reasons for the delay are traceable  The closer the long-range bomber came to actuality, the stiffer became the opposition to i