ip Ostfriesland in 1921; and both at Maxwell Field and in Washington he had been a leader in the development of the Air Forces’ basic war strategy. He had never run an airline and he needed help from someone who had.  By chance, President Roosevelt received a phone call one day that provided a solution to George’s need. The call was from a long-time Roosevelt friend, C, R. Smith, a big, gruff Texan who was president of  American Airlines and already a legend in the airline business for his quick but intuitive decisions and his rapport with people  As was his custom, Smith got right to the point in his conversation with the president. “You can tell Hap Arnold,” he said, “if he needs someone to run his goddamned air transportation, I'm available."  As soon as the president relayed this information, Arnold called Smith, who shortly thereafter became Col. C. R. Smith, deputy com- mander of the A.T.C. under George. Standing side by side, the two men looked like Mutt and Jeff—Smith, about six feet four and slightly rumpled, as if he had just been working on an airc raft engine (which he sometimes did); George, almost a foot shorter and splendidly attired in his well-cut uniform. But they worked together as if they had been born to be partners, with George concentrating on the military aspects of the operation while Smith organized the airline aspects. They got on so well they became lifelong friends.  Smith joined the Air Forces, at considerable financial sacrifice, not only because he could see the value of becoming involved in such a major enterprise as A.T.C., but for another reason Arnold could appreciate. Smith had been excluded from the experience of World War I because, as he said, “My mother had seven children and no father for them.” At that time, he was already supporting the family. After the war, he attended the University of Texas for four years, then, in 1928, learned to fly for a small Texas airline. Six years later he was president  of American Airlines, H