portable even in those difficult days, but he did note that their talk “gives me the impression of a brilliant mind—obsessed by a plan he can’t carry out—dramatic to the extreme—much more nervous than when I formerly knew him. Hands  twitch and tremble—shell shocked.”  From Brisbane, Arnold flew to Espiritu Santo, the westernmost island in the New Hebrides, where the Air Forces and the Navy had established a primitive air base for the Solomons campaign. The 11th Bombardment Group, commanded by Col. Laverne G. Saunders, a onetime football star at West Point, was stationed there in the company of mud, mosquitoes, malaria, and a Navy fighter squadron. At this the Air Forces and the Navy were getting along  fighting-men’s level, nicely together despite their shared misery. Since they had almost no maintenance men, the B-17 crews were repairing their own planes and sleeping under the wings, but they were flying daily missions against the Japanese on Guadalcanal, and they had only one complaint. Their lifeboats, they said, were built to hold four men, and as there were eight men in each crew, four of them had to ling to the sides, uncomfortably exposed, when they went down in these shark-infested waters. Arnold  promised he would do something about that.  suppl of wh Nimit waster reach Here them, A neithe but o1 C the a1 left tt Arnol pairs they airfiel a only ¢ Ernie was st be en F and | only travel Lock! Ther seats: and K of the Austr havin (As A airlift initiat going Gene  two |  Thomas M. Coffey 290  Saunders gave him a tour of the base in a jeep but didn’t suggest he stay overnight because there was no mess hall.** Of the thirty-six planes with which the group had left Hawaii in late July, twelve had been lost  but the other twenty-four were still flying missions. Six were out on patrol this afternoon. Before Arnold left, they returned with the news that they had sunk two Japanese transports. Arnold was so impressed he decided to recommend Saunders for his first star