l proceed to Dayton, Ohio, for the purpose of undergoing a course of instruction in operating the Wright  airplane 2nd Li. Henry H. Arnold, 29th Infantry 2nd Lt. Thomas DeW, Milling, 15th Cavalry  Though Milling was two years younger, Arnold had known him well at West Point, liked him, and thought him intelligent. But his willingness to leave the glamorous Cavalry for a chance to learn to fly amazed Arnold. If Arnold had been chosen for the Cavalry, it is doubtful he would have been willing to forsake it.  in ull- ked five em. rad ng- ion y to But an hey  10m  the ring vild, eful the now nent ight nted  m at was ame then and sofa \ir of also llors, orty- nold t the llors,  that,  hen Arnold and Milling arrived at Dayton in late April 1911, they found a quiet, sleepy, residential town of about 150,000 people, basically a horse-and-buggy town, on the edge of which those two stubborn brothers Orville and Wilbur Wright were trying, with their strange invention, to introduce the age of flight even before the automobile had been fully accepted. There were a few cars, of course owned by the wealthy and venturesome, but there were no snbeheedl taxis. To reach the Wright Aircraft factory by any conveyance more modern than a horse and buggy, young officers had to take a little Toonerville trolley, which was open in the rear.’ At the factory, a small brick building, they were greeted by Orville Wright (Wilbur was then in France) and the manager, Frank Russell. It did not take long for these two to show the newcomers around the plant. They had only fou rooms, in which they employed no more than twenty-five men. In the largest room, at the rear of the factory, they assembled their aircraft, two of which they were now manufacturing for the Army. These were ie be the second and third planes ever purchased by the Army, which had bought its first plane from the Wright brothers in 1909. The year before that, in response to a Signal Corps call for bids, Orville Wright had brought a pl