ople and 10,000 planes. But he insisted that the relatively new Air Transport Command survive the demobilization. It would be needed, he said, as a link between installations around the world, and as a means of deploying troops quickly in case of an emergency.' At the same time, he suggested that surplus aircraft be melted down and the metal be salvaged. His advice about the A.T.C. prevailed but his effort to save metals was ignored During much of September, Bee was in California, which left him alone in Washington. He had now shortened his work day, coming home usually in the early afternoon to write to her, rest fc  an hour or so, and walk the dogs. His letters showed his continuing concern about her health: “All my love—get some curves, eat well, be your own sweet self and come home to your Hap.  In October he wrote a remarkable article entitled “Our Power to Destroy War,” in which he argued for a continuing national research and development program, but to the surprise of those who knew him  not necessarily for an endless commitment to military aircraft  376  If the nations of the world find that they cannot act in concert, our possession of power will be our only resource. Therefore we must at all cost maintain it  What do we need to maintain it?  I will start by emphasizing that | am not holding any brief for a permanent air force in terms of the mighty air forces we built up during the war. What we will need is an adequate, well-trained, fully equipped force of whatever kind is necessary to use the new weapons and devices properly  This was the man who, more than any other, had brought the  airplane and the U.S. Air Forces to the ultimate moment of power. In 1945, only an airplane could have delivered the atomic bombs to Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The release of those bombs was the culmina- tion of the campaign Billy Mitchell, Arnold, and others had waged in favor of air power since the end of World War I. On the day of the Hiroshima cataclysm, the Air Forces Ar