rney Giles:  Attached are Mr. Lovett’s comments on the P-47 situation in England. This brings to my mind very clearly the absolute necessity for building a fighter airplane that can go in and come out with the bombers. Moreover, this fighter has got to go into Germany About six months remain before deep daylight penetration of Germany begins. Within this next six months, you have got to get a fighter that can protect our bombers. Whether you use an existing type or have to start from scratch is your problem. Get to work on this right away  In this directive, Arnold also pointed out that the P-38, though useful in Africa, accelerated poorly and was too slow to bother the big-league German fighters on the western front. As for the P-51, he didn’t even mention it  It is notable that while he told Giles it would be six months before the Eighth was ready for deep penctration of Germany, he was already demanding of Eaker that he get going immediately. He had heard about all the difficulties weather, maintenance, combat attrition—but in spite of difficulties, he wanted results. How could he justify the dispatch of so many planes to England, how could he tell the Navy they couldn't have those planes, if they weren't now being used effectively against Ger- many?  On June 12 he had cabled Eaker about “the low percentage of airplanes your organization has been able to keep in commission.” To solve the maintenance problem, he said, Eaker needed “a clearcut supply and maintenance plan” and “an Air Service Commander with sufficient initiative, force and executive ability to carry out this plan.”  He had already suggested as air service commander Hugh Knerr, who had finally been allowed back into the Air Forces with the rank of colonel. Though Arnold and Knerr could hardly be called friends, Arnold’s high regard for Knerr’s ability is indicated by his description of the job for which he was recommending him.  “Three days after his cable, on June 15, Arnold sent a letter to Eaker c