ers?  , to be sure, On the other hand, many of the guests one who didn't wish to drink could decline to do so, ig, his daughter's wedding, an occasion to celebrate. nine,” he said, “is going to have a wedding at which ther have her wedding without liquor, Dr. Arnold vuld have it without the Arnolds,  impasse, Sidney Pool, the more flexible of the two ed and promised there would be no champagne at the He did not promise, however, that the entire  be so abstemious. or problem presumably settled, there were no more 1 Hap’s sister, Betty, announced to the young couple to go with them to his next station, the Philippines, w them. Hap was not altogether unprepared for this. ur of duty in the Philippines, Betty had offered to do id been able to put her off that time by telling her he eep; he was in the jungle on a mapping mission This yride, he would have to have a house, but he was sure > to keep it nicely. icked when he declined her offer, so shocked that on an hour before Bee was to leave for the church, she it her soon-to-be sister-in-law had again changed her d once more she would not be a member of the o was getting to know Betty better every day, was less by this news. She was surprised, though, when she irch and found that Betty, having changed her mind there. edding with six bridesmaids, six groomsmen, a hurch da nervous bridegroom, After the ceremony, which y, Tommy Milling, the best man, and Lois Pool, the srpetrated a bit of harmless mischief by getting away to he bride’s limousine, leaving the second best for Hap the Pool home, as the crowd began arriving for the inger and sportier gentlemen were discreetly informed id something better than cake and lemonade upstairs rivate sitting room. Pool had always kept a full cellar. k Scotch and water sparingly, His fun-loving wife, called “Matie,” drank gin, less sparingly but not isitors were usually offered a wide choice. In his sitting  Thomas M. Coffey * 74  be a Baptist, and when she didn’t choose to do something,