d it again,  but think what Lee could have done with just one Wright airplane. Though he was appalled to find the school ignoring the possible uses of the airplane, he studied diligently and did well even in Cavalry prob- lems. He amazed some of the Cavalry officers by suffering through a long ride they didn’t think he could endure. But despite his diligence, he had his problems with King, just as the tough old general had predicted.  Arnold and the other Air Corps officers at the school wanted time to fly so they could at least earn their flight pay. King, who scarcely believed in flying, couldn't be expected to believe in flight pay, which he and his Cavalry colleagues were not eligible to earn. Yet he couldn't actually prevent the pilots from flying, so he simply made it as difficult as possible. On one occasion, after an airman crashed a plane into the Missouri River, the general called all the air officers into his office and told them they didn’t know how to fly. Then he proceeded to give them a lecture on the subject  When he finally dismissed them, Arnold, before he was out of  earshot, said to his colleagues in his usual loud voice, “That guy doesn't  know a damned thing about flying.”  King, hearing him, came running out after him and grabbed him by his Sam Browne belt.  “You take that back,” he demanded  137 * HAP  “No, sir, you don't know anything about flying,” Arnold repeated, “and you can’t tell these men how to fly.""* King also called him on the carpet one day for buzzing his own  quarter  to let Bee know he was back from a flight and was coming in to land, but despite King’s harassment, or perhaps because of it, Arnold passed all of his courses with high marks and was ready to graduate in June Is  He wrote his final paper on the subject of how air operations should be  Before leaving, he couldn't resist one last jab at the general  taught at the Command and General Staff School  On graduation day, all the Arnolds were up early, and all of them were