ing about the aircraft industry and the development of an air force.  He made a one of his aides, “Next week I’m going to school with General Arnold.”  friendly call to the Air Corps chief, after which he said to  In the meantime, Arnold, having caught Roosevelt's enthusiasm and accepted literally the aircraft figures he mentioned, had begun planning Air Corps expansion on the basis of those figures. But first he 1g of his own staff. “We had been fighting  had to revolutionize the think) so hard and so long to get the few planes, the gasoline, the pilots, the  aw S INO  A, fier he took over as chief of the Air Corps, Hap Arnold could  understand why his predecessor, Oscar Westover, had spent so  much of his time away from Washington. The responsibility of running even the skeleton corps then in existence was enough to make any man  want to get out of town. And the newly revealed possibility of building  the corps into a real air force with the support of Roosevelt’s urgent enthusiasm was bound to complicate the job rather than simplify it. The likelihood of large appropriations for the anticipated expansion soon at- ger telling him how  tracted an endless number of government agencies—all of them, e2  for a piece of what Arnold called “the Air Corps pie, much they loved the corps and how essential they were to its welfare.  But before there were any tangible signs of a feast, there was a  surprising sign of continuing hunger. On October 5, 1938, the adjutant general sent Arnold a War Department budget memorandum which said “4-engine bombers will not be included in the estimates for FYs [Fiscal Years] 1940 and 1941  This meant either that Secretary Woodring, openly unsympathetic  to Air Corps expansion, hadn't heard a word the president said at that historic September 28 meeting, or that he had decided to pay no attention to Roosevelt's orders, or that he assumed the money for Roosevelt's air force would come not from the Army budget but directly from the U.S. Treasu