have happened to me  Though he felt a growing need for good officers, Arnold seemed  less than eager to hire one particular outstanding man who became  235 HAP  available in the early summer of 1941.'* Col. Hugh Knerr, who had been retired from the Army for medical reasons but whose health was now apparently sound, had been trying since May to return to active duty His possible reemergence brought back echoes of the mid-1930s strug gle for the B-17, air power, and an independent air force. Knerr had not yet forgiven Arnold's self-restraint in that struggle, which he and Frank Andrews had led, and which he himself had never abandoned even though, like Andrews, he had been “exiled” by the War Department for his part in it.  In February 1938, after being relieved as chief of staff, G.H.Q. Air Force, Knerr had been demoted to lieutenant colonel and sent to Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio as air officer for the Eighth Army Corps Area. He was assigned to the same “remote” office there that Billy Mitchell had occupied during his “exile,” and as soon as he settled into it he was “mortified to see an open-top latrine in the opposite corner.” He was soon further mortified to find the outer office clerks walking in and out to use this latrine. The Army was teaching him a lesson,  Strange things began happening to Knerr in San Antonio. “The  frustration of my routine and strain of the G.H.Q. experience brought  on a recurrence of sciatica traceable to a crash . . . in 1923." When the flight surgeon discovered this, he “put me in the hospital where I remained unwillingly for several months.” In January 1939, Knerr  “agreed to retire” and was sent before a retirement board, During the board’s deliberations, a psychiatrist made the claim that “I had a psychosomatic indication resulting from my persistent battles for the B-17." Knerr noted that “subsequent examination at Walter Reed [Hospital] cleared me.”  In April 1939, as a civilian, Knerr continued his crusade for a separate ai