ondition, As he was crossing the Tehachapi P jolt and noticed that the control wires to the tail surfac When he looked around he could see nothing wrong what reassuring since he had no choice but to continu the mountains, where he couldn't land, and he had no ¢ Service had not yet decreed that parachutes be availal Reaching the Mojave Desert and flying over it at 7 beginning to regain some confidence in the airplane wh I looked down and saw the bottom of the LePere’s woo cracked wide open and apparently was opening more. Though he could have found level ground in the d make a forced landing, he chose to continue, but “very no liberties” with the plane, and landing at March Fie loaded with eggs.” He didn’t learn how close he had co he pushed the throttle forward to taxi the plane to th: “The tail skid held fast, the engine kept on going, split in half directly under my feet. 1 had flown that o way from Tehachapi Pass to March Field with noth fuselage together but the control wires.” Arnold in his memoirs was almost cryptic about this incident. He wrote simply: “. . . its effect on me be  the fall of 1922, and after a tour in the hospital I was re Air Officer and sent to Rockwell Field, San Diego, Officer.”  His stay at Letterman Hospital was ostensibly due  flareup. In an August 23, 1922, letter from the hospita  wrote: “I still have another week in bed from next Sun an X-ray taken, and based on the X-ray pictures, the 1 their minds as to whether or not they think I should be “he let his father know thi  underlining the word “they an operation was what he needed. Arnold’s own w« memoirs and this letter, make it clear that he was suff than ulcers. Toward the end of the letter to his father stomach now seems to be working all right. . . . It is re since my attack two years ago that I have been able to fi stomach Hence if present indications mean anyth to return to duty as soon as | can recover from my six ¥ surprise to me of the whole thing is the marvelous resu just a