d that the control wires to the tail surface had tightened.” When he looked around he could see nothing wrong, which was some- what reassuring since he had no choice but to continue—he was above the mountains, where he couldn't land, and he had no parachute (the Air Service had not yet decreed that parachutes be available on all flights)  Reaching the Mojave Desert and flying over it at 7,000 feet, he was I felt a draft. + had  beginning to regain some confidence in the airplane whe}  I looked down and saw the bottom of the LePere’s wooden fuselag cracked wide open and apparently was opening more.”*  Though he could have found level ground in the desert on which to make a forced landing, he chose to continue, but “very carefully, taking no liberties” with the plane, and landing at March Field “as if [it] were loaded with eggs.” He didn’t learn how close he had come to death until he pushed the throttle forward to taxi the plane to the hangar  “The tail skid held fast, the engine kept on going, and the fuselage t. I had flown that old LePere all the way from Tehachapi Pass to March Field with nothing holding the  split in half directly under my fe  fuselage together but the control wires.” Arnold in his memoirs was almost cryptic about the aftermath of  this incident. He wrote simply: “. . . its effect on me became manifest in  the fall of 1922, and after a tour in the hospital I was relieved as Western Air Officer and sent to Rockwell Field, San Diego, as Commanding Officer.”  His stay at Letterman Hospital was ostensibly due to another ulcer  flareup. In an August 23, 1922, letter from the hospital to his father, he  wrote: “I still have another week in bed from next Sunday, Then I have up their minds as to whether or not they think I should be operated on.” By “he let his father know that he didn’t think  an X-ray taken, and based on the X-ray pictures, the medicos mak  underlining the word “they an operation was what he needed. Arnold’s own words, in both his mem