ing, the only one ever built, and was so chagrined at the memory of its failure, at the embarrassment it had caused Mitchell and all the air-power advocates, that he couldn't stand even to look at it  A few weeks later, lunching at home, he said to his family, “It's now  twelve-twenty-five. At twelve-thirty, there's going to be a big fire on this  base.  He was precisely correct. At twelve-thirty, great tongues of flame arose from the base dump and the Barling bomber was quickly con- sumed. At least it would not survive physically to mock Mitchell, Arnold, and the other air zealots who had clamored for it. The day Arnold discovered it in the warehouse he had asked why it hadn’t been destroyed. He was told that every time its destruction was proposed, Washington vetoed the suggestion. Arnold knew how to get around that. He renewed the request, calling the plane simply “one heavy bomber” and not mentioning that it was the Barling. Permission to demolish “one heavy bomber” was quickly forthcoming.*  The facility he was now in charge of was actually “a hodge-podge of ancient hangars connected by old roads that wound through fields of wild wheat and other tall grasses.” On the flight line, at the foot of a low plateau, there was a row of modern hangars, Atop the plateau was the family housing area, composed mostly of refurbished World War barracks. Fortunately for Arnold, the commanding officer's home was much more substantial. A several-times-remodeled two-story farm- house, it had glassed-in porches on both floors, three large bedrooms, a high-ceilinged living room, and a big, country-style kitchen, where Maggie held sway. In all directions there was a feeling of space, with idyllic rural landscapes to contemplate, The Arnold family was soon quite happy there, and the house was usually full of people, many of them Arnold's old friends in transit—Spaatz, Eaker, Jake Fickel, and Bert Dargue. Even General Fechet himself stayed with them when he visited Dayton. Orville Wri