utenant who would try to dictate the branch in which he would serve was a source of amusement to most of the officers who read or heard about it. But few of Arnold's regimental colleagues in the 29th were even slightly amused. They were proud Infantry officers and carried a special scorn for the Cavalry, perhaps because they resented the snobbery of the horsemen and the extra stipend handed to them each month in the form of “mounted pay.” To these officers Arnold's passionate effort to get into the Cavalry was an insult to the Infantry. Though he tried tactfully to get them to accept him, he did not completely succeed, perhaps because tact was not one of his more noticeable virtues, and he was still unable to disguise the hope that he would eventually become a Cavalry officer.  33 * HAP  To Lt. Ben Castle, one of the men with whom he shared quarters, it  was obvious that while Arnold performed his duties well enough, “his heart was not in the Infantry. He didn’t want to be an Infantry officer. That's all there was to it.” He didn’t mind expeditions into the field despite the jungle hardships. What he hated was the garrison life at Fort McKinley. Besides all the call-paying and card-leaving, there was the obligation to attend stuffy formal dinners and Saturday night dances, and sometimes to escort senior officers’ daughters. The islands were such notorious marrying grounds for the daughters of colonels and generals that a junior officer had to be nimble if he wanted to avoid their snares. Arnold wasn’t comfortable around these girls and he wasn’t interested in marrying any of them. Yet he was noticeably handsome and he had that perpetual smile, which was as charming to women as it was disarming to men. Any day, without warning, some colonel’s daughter might come down with an infatuation for him and ask her daddy to help get him for her. To save himself from such a possible fate, it would be sensible to find a means of escape from Fort McKinley, and eventually he did.