avy P-T boat came up beside it, between Coral Gables and Catcaid Island, and challenged it to a race.  Arnold said to the crash boat captain, “Can you whip *em?”  The captain said, “Yeah, I can whip ‘em.” “Don't start anything you can't finish,” Arnold warned. “I don’t  want the Navy to beat me.”  With the captain’s assurance, Arnold fired a gun and the race was on. The P-T boat got away so fast it seemed about to put the crash boat out of sight. Then the crash boat captain, having given the sailors a sense of false security, began pouring on power. When he passed the P-T boat, it seemed to be standing still.  Arnold said to Simmons, “This fellow knows how to handle a boat.”  Simmons, who had been talking to the crew, said, “Yes, sir, he ought to. He used to be a rum-runner.”  By early June, Arnold was impatient to get back to work. On the fifth, he learned that 98 Superforts had taken off from India on the first-ever B-29 mission, The 20th Bomber Command had been forced to stage the mission from India because there wasn’t yet enough gasoline at the advance bases in China. The B-29s, with the help of the A.T.C., were carrying their own gasoline into China over the Hump, and it wasa slow process. From India, the big bombers couldn't reach Japan, so rail yards in Japanese-held Bangkok were the target. Partly because the day was overcast, and partly because neither the airplanes nor the crews were quite ready, the mission was less than successful. Though the yards were virtually undefended, only 77 planes were able to drop bombs and only 18 of those bombs came close to their targets  It was not a reassuring start but Arnold was unwilling to pull back  Thomas M. Coffey * 344  felt he ignored her and didn’t keep her fully informed about Hap’s condition.  Unable to cope with all this, Arnold phoned Mary Streett, who had been for years one of Bee’s close friends. Mary's husband, Bill, one of eneral of the Thirteenth Air Force in the Pacific, and Mary was alone at their Bet