ommand rol loss of hitting power.”  Harris, in his conversation with Arnold, had n criticism of the plane in combat. The machine guns latest model the British had received, were not set in the plane had no tail guns. The gunners would h warned, unless those guns were set in proper empla  These British disparagements of the B-17 musi nold. ‘The basic American air-war plan depended up failed, there was only the B-24 to fall back on (at least B-29 was developed), but very few people in the Air the B-24 as good a plane as the B-17. Per haps the Bri their B-17s, as General Brett had reported, but even s explain the plane’s poor record in combat to dat  missions (mostly two or three planes per mission) Fort  253 = HAP  especially some of the men his own age, long-time friends and associates, lacked the drive and the dynamism to handle big jobs under wartime  Thomas M. Coffey  negotiate with the British for headquart  ‘S, air dromes, communication all the stuff we'll need, Understudy the British and work out the plans.  Then I'll get you some bombers and some crews. You'll be in charge of the Eighth Air Force Bomber Command.” “Bombers!” Eaker exclaimed. “But I’ve been in fighters all my life!” “That's why I'm giving you this job,” Arnold said. “I want you to put some fight into the bombers.” “What do I do for a staff ?”  “I can spare two or three good men,” Arnold said. “Beyond that I suggest you find yourself some civilians. You take a smart civilian, you  ean mabe him a emart nficor in  ah  ”  253 =» HAP  especially some of the men his own age, long-time friends and associates, lacked the drive and the dynamism to handle big jobs under wartime conditions. He knew he would have to relieve some of them, and just in case he might forget to do so, Marshall kept reminding him,'*  After the war, Marshall said, “My main difficulties [with Arnold] came from the fact that he had a very immature staff. They were not immature in years, because they were pretty old but. . . they wer