he possibility of a sneak attack. After several more phone calls, and after putting March Field on a  war status,” he and Beebe again took off, just before dark, this time for San Francisco, then Washington. Because the weather was bad, it took almost forty  hours to fly across the country. Fortunately, Arnold was able to get some  sleep on the way. It would be several days before he gol any more.  G CHAPTER 15 >) ey  t about four o'clock in the afternoon of December 9, 1941, Beebe brought the general's DC-3 down out of the thick overcast and landed at Bolling Field. Arnold said to him, “I'll see you at the office,”  then leaped out of the plane and into his waiting car.’ During the  weather delays on the flight east, he had spent most of his time on the phone to Washington, so when he arrived at his Munitions Building office, he already had considerable information about the Japanese attack and the extent of damage it had done. He was quite prepared to blame the Navy for what had happened. How could the Japanese have launched an attack from two hundred miles north of Hawaii when, if his  information was correct, a U.S. naval task force was on maneuvers north of Oahu, directly in the path of the raiding planes?* As soon as he reached his office he was confronted by other questions, which indicated the Navy might not deserve all the blame. Why, for instance did it take three or four hours after the first Japanese attack in Hawaii before most of the Air Forces’ P-40 fighters could get off the ground? And how could twelve Air Forces B-17s have been caught on the ground and destroyed in the Philippines? Fortunately for Arnold, these questions would never embarrass him personally because he had no control over the use of Air Forces units in Hawaii or the Philippines. Operationally, the Air Forces were still part of the Army and the air commander. But while the dismal lack of air performance on December 7 and 8 may not have embarrassed Arnold, it did infuriate him, “I had