blicists and supporters would raise its soul from the depths on a  tide of evasive words.  Until the B-17 actually appeared, the long-range heavy bomber had been only a paper threat, but the Navy, having fared so badly against the short-range bomber, was wary of it, On August 13, 1937, Lt. Col. Robert Olds of the G.H.Q. Air Force, leading a flight of three B-17s (Capt Curtis LeMay was the navigator), located the battleship Utah—despite foggy weather—in the Pacific during a controlled operation and soaked her decks with water-filled “bombs.” The Navy response to that per-  formance was to classify the whole exercise “Secret,” with the coopera- tion of the War Department, which shared the Navy's antipathy to the long-range bomber.  Then on May 12, 1938, three B-17s in an Air Corps exercise in the Atlantic, again led by Olds, took off from New York's Mitchel Field, pinpointed the Italian liner Rex 625 miles at sea, and photographed it. The Navy response to that performance soon reached the Air Corps through General Craig. The very next day, May 13, 1938, Craig phoned General Andrews to inform him that thereafter, the Air Corps would limit its operations to an area within one hundred miles of the continen- tal coast  This was not actually a new rule. It had been promulgated by the War Department on September 1, 1936,'’ at the apparent insistence of the Navy, but no one in the Air Corps had paid it any attention until Craig’s verbal order was handed down in May 1938. Though that order was never put on paper, it was rigidly enforced by the General Staff, thus relieving the Navy, for some time at least, from further embarrass- ment by the Air Corps’ long-range bombers.  The Air Corps’ most outspoken advocates of long-range bombing and an independent air force did not fare well at the hands of General Craig. In February 1938, General Andrews was brought to Washington and told that his G.H.Q. Air Force staff would thereafter be appointed by the General Staff. Colonel Knerr w