d could appreciate. Smith had been excluded from the experience of World War I because, as he said, “My mother had seven children and no father for them.” At that time, he was already supporting the family. After the war, he attended the University of Texas for four years, then, in 1928, learned to fly for a small Texas airline. Six years later he was president of American Airlines. He had met Arnold through their mutual friend  Thomas M. Coffey 280  indicates how difficult it was for Arnold to release men on whom he had  learned to depend  I do want to tell you that it was with honest-to-God real regret that I let you go, | thought about it for some time and finally decided that I would be selfish to stand between you and your first chance to put to test in the field your professional knowledge and training 1 appreciate, Gene, more than I can ever tell you, the very able me during the last four years At  assistance you have rendere:  this moment I feel as if I have lost my mght arm.  As the summer progressed, Ar nold was confronted by more aircraft worries. In late June he received a report from the Pacific that indicated the Japanese Zeros were beginning to outlast the American P-39s and P-40s in battle.* During the early weeks of the war, the American fighters enjoyed a one-to-four loss advantage in engagements with the Zeros. But during June, twenty-two P-39s were lost while bringing  down seventeen Zeros; and ten P-40s fell while destroying eleven  Zeros. The 39s and 40s would have to be replaced soon by P-38s and the new Republic P-47s  By late July, the Ford Motor Company had fallen so far behind in deliveries of B-24s that Arnold asked Charles Lindbergh to go to Detroit and find out if anything could be done. Lindbergh returned on August 11 with very little encouraging news. Arnold, who had visited the Ford plant himself on July 31, was not surprised. He was more than ever convinced that auto companies didn't know how to make aircraft. And he had also become