e. The LePere was a streamlined craft, more advanced than the DH, more powerful, and about ten miles an hour faster. Arnold, who was feeling increasingly comfortable about flying, used his LePere at every opportunity, to the envy of all the other pilots on the base.  One day, in the early summer of 1919, when he was landing the LePere at Rockwell, he lost control of it and crashed. He was thrown forward by the impact but was held by his safety belt, which probably  saved his life." However, he suffered internal abdominal injuries and even after he was healed physically, at least outwardly, his stomach continued to cause him distress.  In June 1919, with the demobilization at Rockwell Field virtually complete, Arnold was transferred to San Francisco as the air officer for the Army's Ninth Corps Area, where his principal job was to take charge of Army flying on the West Coast and to keep the commanding general, Hunter Liggett, informed about air matters. Since little was left of the Air Service, it wasn’t a difficult job. Arnold's office was in the Santa Fe Building downtown, and because there were no quarters available at the Presidio, he found a house across the bay in Berkeley for Bee and the three children. Lois was now four; Hank, three; and the baby, William Bruce, a year old.  With all of his excess energy to spend and very little to spend it on, Arnold quickly became restless. Two or three weeks after his arrival at his new post, he began, on his own initiative, to organize an aerial forest fire patrol. Painfully conscious of how puny the Air Service had become, he believed the best way to build its stature was to make the public aware of it by beginning what he called “a new pattern of national usefulness in peace time.” The U.S. Forestry Service was delighted with the idea, and Arnold was soon making regular flights over the forests of the Far West from the Cascades and the Olympic Mountains, down past the Sierra  Nevada and the coast ranges as far as the Si