n $0, insted that mes were changing because of new technology, and that henceforth, a noning ocr would be abl to goal he way tothe top ithe ad the abil, Brce wasnt cnc. I ered to im hata  cater oficerin the Ar Fore who cold By woud feel “ike a eunuch  ina harem,’  Finally Arnold Joke! crs at Bruce and id phi, “God ami cat hav atleast one on in the Ar Force  Fevasthe tie in Bruce’ that hfe had eve pleaded wih hon for anything, They had never been ove Bruce had alvays fl  pis father vas not ner in schol of acarer From hidhood he  sheet his fiber saying that Hank would goto West Poin whereas Brce cul go to school wherever he pleased. He baa been  convinced, ever a that cary ae, that his fhe cia’ ar abou im hada exactly envied Hank, who suffered the  At the same time, he fsbo’ fate of seeing bi freedom of coe bathe of whiskey and all of these  foreclosed, Now, as  Bruce faced his father acs the  * HAP  » have been forgotten. When Arnold with him dlaw happened to be standing behind  ‘re you are,” Arnold called out to him as pedal all the way to the floor and om his spinning wheels as he sped  managed to finish the book together on in the fall of 1949, Arnold waited 10irs of several famous World War II shed and had done well. Arnold's of between 60,000 and 80,000 copies; it, envisioned a sale of 100,000."  Arnold had very little to do. He helped National Geographic magazine entitled, 1." He made his life there appear to be was. Why, he asked, had he chosen to First of all, because it was one of three vife didn’t suffer from hay fever. But  than a family of unafraid deer not away from his back door; or three house to get feed and water morning nming birds, and many other species bird baths. . . . ? :xpansive horizons of softly rolling to blue-misted mountains; or the —the colorful woof and warp of its e to the driving, restless tempo of the gracious living, the leisureliness,  1¢ charm of the Valley of the Moon was _ondon before him, described it. But imself in the charm a