ake care of itself,” he said, “I think it would be far better with the Signal Corps. At the present time it is not  and his feeling that  able to take care of itself.” (This was an issue destined to keep coming up for the next thirty-four years. Though Arnold eventually did as much as any man to make the separate U.S. Air Force a reality, he would often find himself in trouble during those years because his views, especially on the timing of the move, didn’t always coincide with those of other air officers.)  In the midst of Arnold's testimony, Chairman Hay returned to his personal situation. “You say you have been relieved?”  “Yes, sir, upon my own request.”  “And how long do officers generally stay in the Service?”  “That depends upon the temperament of the officer,” Arnold replied. “Lt. Milling has been in the service for some time. He started at  the same time I did, and it has not affected him as far as I can see, but his  i  cai al Se he  Agha ee as ce ad at sn hes ads ee atl  von aaa  elt cern ie es eee sre it  a ibrar,  jy alent villi vipa lie dtd i  oh ws eg en pr oes wn fo  vac ie oe he ats ero i sey  ahi oh ded he  of wing ht  ii Aig cy at ayes fg yee ven ld vs rig is ih bi ein gt in,  ra gist fm aa kn ye a 1s hat oe cit a ll ian b mand ul pli ‘oc nga wre mais ou we an pu Hea fe ge eta hel ee hi rug ah ig Ao int iy te kei vi  Face edo iv sl shia  ri a  "Ay ths ean,  wrt ic su,  rete cd, eal ea  cod! yma pope oe a  aque ates, bg i el nv gt ihe he ihe  beau  feeble air dx  hol,  Dro adhd on age i al oe ye a tt al ara and ta ss oe exe ie be Al rd al  st cl bi ns aes OM cai eee ao ia  Aa dol ie urd deh ene te cot wast  x te nt  deed npr,  wt ig bea A soil  yeti pt hah" Sh pes ah hoe  cbr eit  eevee  yeu nore out  Uti sc  75 * HAP  t know the Arnolds were teetotalers?  , to be sure, On the other hand, many of the guests one who didn't wish to drink could decline to do so, ig, his daughter's wedding, an occasion to celebrate. nine,” he said, “is going to have a