thing to complain about recognition.” ing chief of staff, had already made one s situation. On August 4, 1939, he had »rce chief Frank Andrews to Washington  110, promoted him to brigadier general the two stars he had lost when he was sent assistant chief of staff for operations and rews had not been an easy move to make relieved him of his G.H.Q. Air Force se of his public campaign in favor of in control of the Army. “For the first time er told his biographer, Forrest C. Pogue, ind General Craig all acted as a unit in ll insisted Andrews was the man he had to  ession,” they finally agreed. Woodring,  B-10s led by He old rei 1 ss »n learning “thing that many other eas y Hap Arnold returning from pioneer Alaska flight, flying n learning something  over Washington, D.C., before landing at Bolling Field ent Roosevelt, would eventually discover  seldom raised his voice, the force of his  he beginning of the war in Europe created immediate repercus- I sions in America. Among other things, it threatened to end the  shipment of all aircraft and other weapons to France and England at a  ume when these Allies against Hitler needed them most. The terms of  the isolationist-sponsored U.S. Neutrality Act of 19)  , and subsequent  revisions of it, prevented the sale of American weapons to any bellig- erent nation, whether it was an aggressor or a victim. Though President Roosevelt had opposed the bill, he had signed it reluctantly because he feared it reflected the will of the electorate. He was such a political animal that the one thing to which he always paid attention was the mood of the voters.  In 1937, when Japan invaded China, he had dodged the provisions of the Neutrality Act and sent aid to the Chinese by calling the invasion an “incident” rather than a war. But he could hardly pretend that the conflict now engulfing Europe was simply an incident. As soon as France and England declared war on Germany, he had to acknowledge that no more planes and weapons could legally b