o get it out onto the roof, sitting astride the apex. Not only did they shut it up for at least one morning, they left it on ignominious display so that the entire cadet corps could look up gratefully the next day and see how it had been silenced. This project was unusual for the Blank Handers because it was, essentially, an . Since it was often  antinoise prank; ordinarily their pranks were pronois the noise they made that won them the attention they sought.  On another occasion Arnold came up with a devilish scheme that was not soon forgotten. He and his friends lugged a dozen or so huge cannonballs to the top of the dormitory stairway, then released them all at once, racing down ahead of them so that they would be in their bunks when everyone else was awakened by the heavy racket of those menacing missiles, descending a step at a time. Arnold, being not quite as fast as some of his friends, was almost caught during this escapade. And in his last year at West Point, two months before his graduation, he actually was caught during the Black Hand's most spectacular stunt, but this was  Thomas M. Coffey * 20  wished he hadn't. He had first decided to try it after he saw his Cavalry instructor put a wad of tobacco between tongue and check.'* He could see that it was a manly thing to do. He'd have to learn to do it when he graduated and joined his Cavalry unit, so why wait? The taste was bitter but like other men he could get accustomed to it, And he did, to suc han against the hated Naval Academy, he put  extent that during a track mee a slug of tobacco in his mouth before getting on his mark for a half-mile race. Toward the end of the race, gasping for breath, he inadvertently swallowed the tobacco, some of which went down the wrong way. Collapsing on the ground, he went into a spasm and had to be removed to the infirmary, where he was treated for an apparent heart attack. He recovered quickly and was about to tell the medical officer what had actually happened when h