he was therefore obliged to warn Bruce despite his  own embarrassment.  During his inspections on Okinawa, Arnold concluded that more airfields would have to be built immediately for the B-29s he was  planning to send there, as well as more ports and post facilities. It  Thomas M. Coffey 368  his deputies in Washington, mobilizing them and telling them what to say as his representatives at this meeting. Then, not content with this, he sent LeMay flying back to Washington to deliver one of his forceful firsthand briefings at the meeting. Arnold was determined to make the final drive on Japan an Air Forces show, which could then be used as an overwhelming argument in favor of establishing an independent ait force.  From Guam, he flew to Iwo Jima, about 700 miles closer to Japan, for a look at the scars of battle and the air facilities which had now been built there. While at Iwo, he picked up an item of information that made him grateful to the marines who had conquered the tiny island. On 1,299 occasions so far since its capture, disabled B-29s that would have been unable to get back to Saipan, Tinian, or Guam, had been able to limp into Iwo, thus saving their crews from death in the Pacific  Arnold flew from Iwo directly to the Philippines, which were now safely in MacArthur's hands after a long, costly, and perhaps unneces- sary campaign. MacArthur told him Spaatz would be the wrong man to command the Strategic Air Force in the final drive against Japan. The implication was that the right man would be MacArthur, an implication Arnold found easy to overlook  In Manila, the destruction had been so complete that all the modern buildings were gone and only two good houses had been left standing. Arnold Among the people who came to see Arnold was his one-time chief of staff George Stratemeyer, who was now air command-  MacArthur occupied one of them, George Kenney the other. stayed with Kenney  er in the Far East. Like Stilwell and others, Stratemeyer was having trouble