he San Francisco press as to whether a pigeon or an airplane could carry a message faster. It was not quite as oudandish an argument as it might seem today. The Signal Corps still used pigeons extensively because the early radios were limited in range, and pigeons, unlike airplanes, could home into the exact destination for which a message was intended. Arnold  ccepted the challenge for the airplane,” and soon found himself flying to Portland with a large box full of trained Signal Corps birds, some with “distin- guished combat records” in the World War. The race was to be from Portland to San Francisco, and the governor of Oregon, Ben Olcott, was to accompany Arnold as a passenger.  On the morning the race began, the pigeons were ceremoniously released as Arnold and the governor dashed to their plane. But it was cold, and as they tried to start the engine, they could see the pigeons disappearing southward. Forty-five minutes later, when the engine finally turned over, Arnold had to play catch-up, which didn’t look easy inasmuch as he would have to make two or three refueling stops.  When he and the governor reached Medford, Oregon, they were told about pigeon sightings as far south as Red Bluff. Meanwhile, in Francisco, it was a field day for the bookies, who mingled with the crowds on Market Street, following the race through telegraphic bulle-  tins. As reports arrived of Arnold’s delays and the numerous pigeon  sightings closer and closer to San Francisco, people began putting their money on the birds.  Arnold at this time was almost ready to concede the race, and when he landed at Crissy Field, seven and a half hours after takeoff from Portland, he fully expected to be greeted as the loser. But to everyone's surprise, no pigeons had yet arrived. All those seen near San Francisco had apparently been local birds, flying merely for the fun of it. Not until forty-eight hours later did the Signal Corps birds reach their home  coops."*  Three months later, on a fligh