hem. Arnold needed him in Washington and didn't want to let him go. O'Donnell had already had combat experience in the Philippines in the early days of the war, but he wanted more, and he was not afraid to talk back to the boss. Arnold admired him for that. On this occasion, O'Donnell went even further. As the argument became heated, Arnold picked up a paper- weight and threw it at him. Rosie, an ex-football star and good athlete, caught it and threw it back to him  When Arnold went home that night he had a gash on his forehead. “Oh, that Rosie!” he exclaimed to his son David, who asked him what had happened.’ But shortly thereafter, Rosie O'Donnell got his wish. He took command of the 73rd Wing of what would soon become the Twentieth Air Force, and headed for Kansas to learn how to fly the Superfortress.  Arnold found time in January to fly to California for his first look at his ranch, and he liked what he saw. Lois drove up from San Francisco to inspect it with him, and he enjoyed that, too. He was still indulgent to his daughter. Though he knew she drank too much, she usually ma’  aged to  337 * HAP  control it in his presence so that it seldom became a serious problem between them.  He found that the ranch needed “a little bit of work and quite a lot of improvements,” but he decided the family would have “a nice place  there . , . if and when we ever raise enough cash to get the job done.  In Sonoma he also saw Bruce, who was stationed in California but expected to be sent overseas. He had some pleasing news. He intended , whom his father had always liked. They were already engaged but didn’t intend to announce it until Bruce managed to buy a ring. His father wondered “why it should take so darn long to get a ring never forgotten the demand his father made that day in West Point, two years earlier: “You will not get married until you've been out of West Point a year and you've saved a thousand dollars.” It was less than a year since Bruce had been graduated fro