akingly refining for several years. If the Air Corps allowed itself to become primarily an Infantry support unit, the whole dream of building a long-range striking force would be shattered and the revolutionary new B-17 Flying Fortress on which airmen had based so many hopes  my  ht as well fly directly to the scrap heap.  In later life, Arnold felt that the development of the four-engine bomber represented “a turning point in the course of air power—of world power.” And the B-17 seemed to him in recollection “the first real American Air Power . . . Air Power that you could put your hand on.” But there is conflicting evidence about his attitude toward the B-17 during the early efforts to procure it in significant numbers for the Air Corps.  The B-17 was the first American airplane to help fulfill Billy Mitchell's dream of a long-range bombing fleet. The construction of the Barling bomber, which he inspired, was an earlier attempt to fulfill that dream, It failed because the air technology of the 1920s was not sufficiently advanced to create what Mitchell wanted. Ironically, it was Mitchell's most outspoken critic in the Air Cor ps, Benny Foulois, who finally got his cherished project off the ground  In the spring of 1934, with aircraft technology becoming increas- ingly sophisticated, Foulois had cajoled the General Staff into approving the construction of a four-engine bomber that had an anticipated range of 5,000 miles, and could carry a ton of bombs at 200 miles per hour. He could never have sold the ground force generals on the notion that such  a plane was needed to protect the United States itself,  but he convinced them it would be  useful in protecting two vital American territories Alaska and Hawaii  ans for sucha plane, but there was some doubt that the Air ( orps would be  grant Boeing a contract because in | was runnin:  The Boeing Aircraft € ompany in Seattle submitted pl.  allowed to when Franklin D. Roosevelt  g for president, the company would not al