ut the craft into a descent by lowering the nose when it was pushed forward. Few of the Wright students had trouble with the elevator controls, but no student could be trusted to fly alone until he had completely mastered the warp and rudder controls  If any student should think flying looked safe and simple, the Wrights could point to two very recent tragedies, which proved the contrary. Two of the most skillful members of their barnstorming team, Ralph Johnstone and Arch Hoxey, known as the “Heavenly Twins” because of their aerial feats, had died in successive crashes within recent months at air shows in Denver and Los Angeles. Orville Wright, ordinarily a taciturn man, could become eloquent when he spoke to his  45 * HAP  fliers on the subject of safety, And if they seemed less than impressed, he could point ominously to the wagon that was parked just outside their cow-pasture airport at Simms Station on every morning they were scheduled to fly. The man in the wagon, Arnold later recalled, would wait until after the last flight was completed, then “untie his horses, turn them around, and, slowly shaking his head, solemnly drive back to Dayton. The man was the local undertaker."  On May 3, Arnold and Milling took a nervous nine-mile ride on the At one end of the old pasture was a thorn tree. At the other end was 2 wooden shed big enough to shelter the two planes available for instruc- tion. Otherwise the field was bare. There were two experienced instruc- tors on hand, one of them, Al Welsh, taking charge of Arnold, and the other, Cliff Turpin, taking charge of Milling. If the two fledglings were frightened, and they had good reason to be, they were not willing to admit it. In later life Arnold professed not to recall the details of his first flight, though it seems extraordinary that he could have forgotten any part of such a crucial incident in his life. When a man took off in an airplane in 1911, he was doing something only a few dozen people had done before hi