lly were envisaged for the B-29. must either be replaced or trained to a point where they can obtain the  maximum from their airplane. I wish you would drive home to your  And in the next paragraph, he said, “Pilots that are weak g  crews and commanders the necessity for carrying maximum weight of bombs on all missions and the fact that every bomb that is carried on each B-29 will contribute to the overall air effort against Japan,”  LeMay began by going on a mission, then telling his crews how  unimpressed he was with the quality of the Japanese opposition, compared to what he had faced in Germany. He grounded all the planes until he was satisfied with their condition, and began retraining the crews in accordance with what he had learned in the skies over Europe He also announced that henceforth, instead of bombing individually to save gas, the planes were to fly in formations and drop their bombs on their leader’s cue. By this time he was fairly unpopular with his men, but at least he had them fighting mad and that was what he wanted. On September 26 he staged his first mission, with seventy-three B-29s hitting a Japanese steel plant at Anshan, Manchuria, Because the sky was overcast and his men weren't yet sufficiently skilled in radar bombing, the raid had little effect. No planes were lost, however, and that was an encouraging change  Meanwhile, Maj. Gen. Haywood Hansell, one of the c hief architects  HAP  355 of the Air Forces’ overall war plan (AWPD-1), had taken charge, on August 28, of the 2Ist Bomber Command, which was then at its  2 > Or Y headquarters in Colorado Springs. It consisted of one B-29 wing already trained for night bombing but due to be retrained for day  bombing, plus three more wings as yet untrained. The trained wing, the a end and former aide Rosie  73rd, was under the command of Arnold's fr  O'Donnell. ; In early October, when the crews of the 21st seemed sufficiently  trained, Hansell staged a shakedown “mission” from Salina, Kansas, to