had been through, w hat they were going through, and what kind of future they might expect. He talked about the infancy and  he end of Wo ary 9, 1946, that he the dynamic drive soon after Germar energy drained by Forces, his persona and his very exist suffered. By any re  He continued toward unification Navy, and Air For heavy burden in t continuing progra ment. He watched people and 72,000 But he insisted tha the demobilization installations aroun quickly in case of ; surplus aircraft be about the A.T.C. ¢  During much alone in Washingto usually in the early walk the dogs. Hi health: “All my lov and come home to  In October he Destroy War,” in v and development }  not necessarily for  Thomas M. Coffey * 378  growth of the Air Forces, the huge wartime expansion, and the current contraction. He talked about supersonic aircraft, rockets, and the exploration of space. He described a world of the future, a world he could envision but would probably never see, He warned them to be ready for this world, to anticipate the changes to come, to be willing to discard the obsolete, however sentimentally attached to it they might be, and to examine new ideas, however outlandish they might appear at first glance. Only by making the maximum use of science, technology, and imagination could the Air Forces hope to maintain the strength neces- sary for the defense of the nation  At the end of his speech he paused and looked down at all the familiar faces in front of him. “I know you people think the old man has lost his marbles and ought to retire,” he told them. “But I hope you'll all remember what I said here today,”  The Arnolds spent the rest of February closing out their Fort Myer quarters, and to the extent Hap’s health would allow, attending farewell parties in their honor, Since Hap was physically limited, the heavy burden fell on Bee, and she worked too hard, not only on the arrangements for their move from Washington, but on the Air Forces relief problems that still engross