zed. And under existing regulations, it would be difficult to explain how a representative of a foreign govern- ment had been authorized to fly in a new and secret American bomber It was decided, either by officials on the spot, or after consultation with Washington, that the injured man in the plane should be identified as a Douglas mechanic named “Smithins.” This subterfuge was effective just long enough for newsmen to get around to the Santa Monica hospital at which Chemidlin was recovering from his injuries. There was something strange about a Douglas mechanic who spoke French so fluently and English with such a pronounced accent. On the twenty-sixth, when it was no longer possible to conceal M. Chemidlin's identity, the Douglas Company issued a statement confirming it  General Arnold, much to his regret, happened to be testifying  about Air Corps needs before the Senate Military Affairs Committee  when its isolationist members learned of the ne wSpaper accounts trans-  forming Smithins into Chemidlin. Senator Bennett Clark of Missouri, an  hn  aeidacd alba ph cam: tall Diba ctl dante ibdgm int if  Fedntw ade ugar ogoae let Tia y pl sn sneha se:aloeyieaieg Tyamacka ntl te yey il! aun alegre’ sign tt vgaesaciqtcl Aopen: aig wibpers woken tae iplakclkidk dente Hasbebint axyaked berth  silage  voor ypuinctabis wp earie i ded alibi A bid enki, filed iyo Akal yoltalpeine weal anki pai seg each yn  hile tal gg whl gmat  ipl i ity  197 * HAP  1 without sufficient funds or authorization, Arnold also began g primary trainer planes from companies like Ryan, Fairchild,  Thomas M. Coffey # 196  much as he dared without disobeying him. He realized now that he had a lot of fighting to do before the Air Corps got enough planes with which to fight. Meanwhile he went to work getting the corps ready for the day when there would be enough planes.  It seemed to him that despite the current bottleneck, the day would eventually come when the corps would need as many as 100,000 pilots