ng  his wife destitute. He was well aware that when he died, his pension  381 * HAP  would stop, and thereafter she would receive only a token monthly sum And the proceeds of his insurance policies wouldn't last very long. He signed a book contract with Harper and Brothers, then, after complet- ing to his satisfaction the enormous task of organizing his letters and official papers, sat down at his typewriter to begin his story. He wasted  no time getting to the dominant theme of his life: “The first airplane I  ever saw was *  When, at the time of his retirement, he told an audience of Washington newsmen he wanted to have nothing more to do with airplanes, he had been speaking in jest, But at his ranch one day, he had occasion to feel that way seriously. Two AT-6 training planes, staging a mock dogfight in the sky above his property, collided, sending one of them into a careening dive toward his house. After the pilot bailed out, the damaged craft plummeted directly toward Arnold’s roof, and he could do nothing but stand by helplessly, waiting to see the house smashed by the impact, then burned to the ground by exploding airplane gas. But at the moment of apparent disaster, as the plane seemed certain to hit the roof, it made one last lurch and missed by inches, bursting into flames at the edge of a pasture, just a few yards away  In November 1947, Arnold had to return to Washington to testify  before a Senate subcommittee investigating one of his former officers,  Gen. Bennett Meyers, The senators were accusing Meyers of using his position as an Air Forces procurement officer to enhance the value of stock he secretly held in manufacturing companies. Though Arnold was in no way involved in Meyers’s dealings, the revelations about Meyers were a source of embarrassment, pain, perhaps even anguish to him.  “Tf, to our regret, we of the Air Force did not find a rotten apple in our barrel,” he told the subcommittee, “we are grateful that others have done so. If we were a