g over Reserve officers in a squadron at the rate of 25 or 30 percent a year, had had two years’ service. Very few of the ‘regular’ civilian air mail routes had been flown over by these officers. They had none of the special airline instruments; they must fly in whatever planes we had, including trainers. There was not  especially in the case of the open-cockpit fighter types that had to be flown—even enough space for the mail bags.”  The plan was to have the Air Corps begin with fourteen of the twenty-six nationwide routes the airlines had flown. For this purpose, the Army would provide 122 planes and 200 pilots. But none of the planes was properly equipped. At that moment, the Air Corps owned only 274 directional gyros and 460 artificial horizons, very few of which were actually mounted on airplanes. As for radios, the corps had 172 transmitter-receivers, none usable at ranges beyond thirty miles  On February 16, Foulois compounded his problem by telling the House Post Office Committee, “We have assigned to this work the most experienced pilots in the Army Air Corps. We have had a great deal of experience in flying at night, and in flying in fogs and bad weather, in blind flying and in flying under all conditions.”  Actually, only 122 of the 262 pilots who were destined to fly the mail had more than two years’ experience. Only thirty-one had more than fifty hours of night flying. Only two had as much as fifty hours of instrument time.* And only forty-eight had as much as twenty-five hours of bad-weather time. Such aviation authorities as ( tharles Lindbergh and Eddie Rickenbacker were predicting dire results if the Air Cx ps persisted in its intentions. On the sixteenth, the day Foulois testified and  157 * HAP  only three days before the regular runs were to begin, their predictions began to come true: three of Arnold's pilots were killed during route-familiarization flights through the Rockies  Plans for the takeover continued nevertheless. Arnold established hi