prove sound,  Arnold could now almost relax about the air war in Europe, but his worries about the B-29, China, and Japan were intensifying. First he had to settle the question of who would control the B-29s and how they would be used when they were ready. Then he had to figure out how to get them ready and make sure they were worth what they cost. His reputation, perhaps his whole career, was riding on the Superfortress and its contribution to the war effort.  Though no one yet knew whether this giant bomber was worth having, everyone involved in the Pacific war was asking for it. MacAr- thur and Kenney in Australia fully expected to get their share; so did Nimitz and the Navy. And Chiang Kai-shek, who had agreed to play host to the B-29s, wanted, therefore, to control or at least influence the decision on how they would be used. None of these people intended to use the plane the way Arnold thought it should be used. MacArthur would use it to soften up the Dutch East Indies, and then the Philip- pines, in preparation for his triumphant return there. Nimitz would use it against submarines. And no one could be sure how it—presumably ag  iang would use  inst Japanese forces in China.  If all these people got their share, the B-29 force would be fractured and the net effect would be to dilute its total impact. To Arnold, Japan was the main target. If the B-29 had any message to carry, he wanted it carried to the Japanese homeland. The way to make that happen, he decided, was to retain control of it himself. With Marshall's help, he managed to put through the Joint Chiefs a directive creating the Twentieth Air Force, comprising the 20th and 21st bomber commands, which would get virtually all the B-29s, and would be commanded by the Joint Chiefs, with himself acting as their executive agent. On February 19, he secured President Roosevelt's approval of this plan. Since the Joint Chiefs had already approved it, Nimitz could hardly put up much of a fight. And Chiang wouldn'