own shortly after the armistice made it obvious that the men who governed the Army did not share these assumptions. While they didn't relegate the Air Service to its previous insignificant status, neither did they take into account its glaring need for technological development. These men were unaccus- tomed to thinking in terms of military technology. The Infantry and Cavalry didn’t depend on technology; they depended on men and horses, and by God, men and horses didn’t change. That was the trouble with the airplanc—you couldn't count on it. As soon as you developed a good one and spent several million dollars getting it into production, somebody else came along with a better one. That was no way to run an army, So the General Staff, with the cooperation of a peace-minded Congress, pencilled in an Air Service budget that virtually eliminated the possibility of any important aircraft advances for years to come. The hope of developing more powerful engines, for example, was immedi- ately squelched. Why? Because the Air Service now had on hand several thousand “Liberty” engines, manufactured during the war but never used. Though they were already obsolete militarily, they were not to be wasted. Empty your plate, the Air Service was told, before you ask for more.  It is easy to imagine how this kind of thinking affected a man like Arnold, whose vision of aviation’s future was now so grandiose that even the farthest horizon could not contain it. He had been somewhat disturbed when Pershing, at the front, made Billy Mitchell subordinate to Brig. Gen. Mason Patrick of the Corps of Engineers, who had never flown an airplane. But that could be explained on the basis of person- ality. Mitchell was so aggressive he could be hard to take. Yet his concepts and his strategies were so brilliant that, by war's end, even the French and British acknowledged him as the greatest of air generals. It  99 # HAP  was he, more than any other man, who had opened the eyes of the world to the