eover continued nevertheless. Arnold established his command post at Salt Lake City. Eaker and his Pursuit Group, equipped with P-26 single-seat fighters, took the Los Angeles-Salt Lake City routes, Maj. Clarence Tinker, with his 2nd Bombardment Group, was to handle San Francisco-Salt Lake City. And one of his squadron commanders was given the Seattle—Portland-Salt Lake City routes.  Eaker could fit only fifty pounds of mail into each of his fighter planes (of which he had ten) if he wanted to leave room for the pilot, but on the day of his first run, the Post Office informed him he had 1,400 pounds of mail to carry. Thousands of philatelists, eager to have stamped envelopes from the first Air Corps airmail flights, had stuffed the letter boxes that day. Eaker called Arnold and asked him what to do with the 900 pounds of mail he couldn't carry. March],” Arnold said, “and I'll give you a bomber.”  Eaker picked up the bomber, but none of his pilots had ever flown one, so for the first week he had to fly as copilot on each of the aircraft's  “Come on over here [to  runs, teaching his fighter pilots how to fly it. Nevertheless, his was the only route that didn’t lose a man. The carnage began on February 22, the fourth day of the project.  One plane crashed near Deshler, Ohio, another in Texas. A pilot on his from Newark to Richmond crash-landed and fractured his skull. Another was lost in a snowstorm near Fremont, Ohio, and bailed out.  The next day, February 23, a pilot made a forced landing in the Adantic and drowned. Already there had been a dozen or more crashes and six fatalities, counting the three men who died in practice flights. Roosevelt was so embarrassed he blamed Foulois for telling him that the Air Corps could do the job. And Foulois, having no one else to blame, said the bad weather was the villain. They agreed to cut the schedule and tighten the weather restrictions, but still the young, inexperienced, and ill-equipped pilots continued to crash. On March