h the same shape and relative dimensions as small ones, will not have the same relative performance.”...1 should have preferred unescorted bombers over Germany.”*  never to send any  Arnold seemed in these reminiscences to imply that it was the 1935 G.H.Q. Air Force exercises that convinced him long-range bombers would need fighter escorts all the way to their targets. Future events were to leave some doubt that he settled on this conviction as early as he indicated  Arnold enjoyed his association with the G.H.Q. Air Force because, under Andrews's direction, it seemed to be doing something. It offered a challenge. It invited experiment. It was attempting to develop, expand, refine, and clarify the function the Air Corps should fulfill in national defense. It was trying for the first time to decide in practical terms how air power could and should be coordinated for the nation’s maximum benefit. Arnold found the work satisfying and so did his men. They were now part of an increasingly tight-knit outfit that was getting something accomplished, and around that fact they built an esprit de corps. But just as some people had foreseen when the G.H.Q. Air Force was formed, this esprit, this identification with one part of the Air Corps, tended to separate the G.H.Q. men from the section under the command of the aut of Air Corps. Arnold himself freely admitted that by the end of Hae san finale — anes than the c hief of Air Cor ps.  Ge Andrews that his G.H.Q. Air Force should not report to the Chief of the Air Corps at all, but should head up directly under the Chief of Staff, we enthusiastically agreed.” By “we” he meant “I.” i  In early December 1935, >. Air - he units could gather in one locality Arnold's berigntirer paces fornia, were allotted twenty-four hours to get ex B ise eae was on the ground twenty-one hours and forty five nian i peieaatves March Field, an excellent Seven f 3h Reprierienainen lise thes eo tameiect eee or planes that cruised at no  per hour and had