ts and construction of new ones, but also the use of three shifts per day. The companies, most of which were on the West Coast, where labor was limited, would have to build subsidiary plants in the East, where labor was plentiful. And the government itself might have to build some plants. But remembering his procurement experience in the World War, Arnold cautioned against bringing the auto industry into aircraft production. He was still con- vinced that car-makers didn’t understand the peculiar problems of plane-making.  In his memo to Spaatz, Arnold foresaw “10,000 airplanes . . . to be provided to the Air Corps by the end of a two-year period.” Of those 10,000 planes, 2,320 (the legal limit imposed by Congress at that time) were already under order, Of the 7,680 to be procured, he expected that  2,000 would be built in government-owned plants, and the aircraft industry would provide the rest. In the fully assembled force there would be 5,620 combat planes, 3,750 t  ners, and 630 miscellaneous planes.  The balance of the memo concerned itself with budget, procure- ment procedures, personnel, training, operations, and so forth. But nowhere in the document, or in Arnold's report to Johnson, is there mention of the possibility that the plan might fall short, or that some of the planes on which the Air Corps was counting might be sent instead to England or France. Arnold seemed at the time to be still blissfully uninformed of Roosevelt's and Morgenthau’s real intentions.  Unbeknown to Arnold, Morgenthau was already negotiating with French banker and diplomat Jean Monnet, who was representing France in that country’s effort to buy American military aircraft, The French, despite their somnolent Premier Edouard Daladier, were finally awaken- ing to the fact that they might need some airplanes if they wanted to protect themselves against Hitler. And the British, despite Prime Minis- ter Chamberlain, were beginning to realize they would need many more planes than they had.