sing. There he me  a Technical Service Command officer, Col. L. W. Stephenson, who had the misfortune of being in the wrong place at the right time. Would he please explain all these shortages?  Colonel Stephenson could not explain them  Was he running this place?  No, he wasn’t,  Well, who was running it, then? “If no one else is, will.”  Arnold said,  He ordered Stephenson to prepare, by the following morning, a list of all shortages, Though it wasn’t exactly his job, he and his staff worked all night preparing such a list."* When Arnold received it, he handed it over to Maj. Gen. Bennett E. Meyers, who was accompanying him.  343. * HAP  Meyers, who found himself in trouble after the war for irregularities in the Air Forces procurement program, had always been known to fellow air officers as a dynamic and effective taskmaster. Arnold said of him, “He got things done.”*  Arnold informed him that he was now the coordinator of the B-29 modification program. By the fifteenth of April, 150 of the big bombers were supposed to be in Asia, and it was his job to make sure they got there.  Meyers and his men examined plane after plane, listed their shortages, then called the factories responsible for each needed part and had them flown to Kansas. Whenever necessary, he even sent planes to get the parts. Since he needed more men to install these parts in a hurry, he called the Boeing factory and arranged the loan of a small army of experienced production people, even though their temporary loss to the company might slow up the assembly lines. Despite another snowstorm and the threat of a labor walkout, he had one group, the 40th, ready to go overseas by April 9.  Two planes, the first one flown by Blondie Saunders, had preceded this group. Saunders arrived at C hakulia, India, on April 7, and was  followed within the next ten days by several other planes.'? But toward the end of April, five of the newly arrived bombers crashed near Karachi on the Arabian Sea, owing to overhe