other arena in the continuing battle between air men and doubters—ground and Navy men—over the potential uses of airplanes in national defense. With men like Hugh Drum of the Infantry declaring that no Army airplane's range should exceed three days’ march by the Infantry, and the Navy's Rear Adm. Yates Surling declaring that airplanes would be the “eyes” of the fleet but that “a shore-based air force” could function “only in narrow waters,” the Air Corps’ campaign for long-range heavy bombers was doomed. The vy, had so much political  Army ground forces, combined with the } strength that all the long-range bombers in the world at that time would not have been able to budge them. But with Hitler gradually becoming a threat in Europe, and with the potential range of airplanes constantly  increasing thanks to new technology, the Board felt obliged to make Air Corps  some recommendations that would appear to meet the  demands. The result was the formation of the General Headquarters Air  Thomas M, Coffey * 164  revelations in her letters, and when she wrote asking his permission to transfer to another school, he sent her a stinging reply, dated October  10, 1934, with some sharp words about her attitude:  I should hate to think that you really meant what you wrote. I hope that we did not get the meaning which you intended to convey. I don't believe that you are yellow—a quitter. I don’t believe that you think that you are so much better than the average run of young America that you can not associate with them. I can’t believe that you have made up your mind that you have developed so that you are far beyond others of your age  If we are correct in our interpretation of your letter, you had better change your mind right away and get down to earth. Get this and get it straight—you are going to stay in the college where you are and finish this year. | am not a quitter and will not have any child of mine a quitter, Hence get busy and get the most you can out of the courses