e this. She also, in later life, | retired from flying after he became engaged to her dn’t allow the fliers to marry in those days.” This 1 spared her the details of his decision to quit flying. ugh he was about flying, Arnold was still full of lleanor, who had often been in his thoughts during  Sensing her awakened interest in him, he felt rt her now, but with sister Betty in attendance, the : circumspect. It would have been anyway. Arnold's ich too proper and the customs of the times too rigid nost innocent of intimacies. Though he could see she igued by him, and she was telling herself he was “the an” she had ever met, not so much as a kiss passed 1eir days together continued. They talked about the life, about aviation, about people back home in \¢ dangers of war in Europe, about baseball, about he subject that interested them most—each other. He he Army and Navy Club for dinner, and sometimes teal moments, or even hours, away from Betty. orning before Betty and Eleanor were to catch a train a, Arnold took Eleanor for a walk through the streets ning to the White House, they stopped and looked in t they weren’t thinking about the lawns and trees, or or the new president, Woodrow Wilson, who had | three months earlier. They were thinking of each ir parting would be, and how much they would miss  aout preamble, he turned to her and, in his quick g, said, “Will you marry me?” aent he had been so reticent, so inept at conveying his  Thomas M. Coffey * 68  the Signal Corps, under General Scriven’s orders, rec ognized these circumstances and launched some corrective measures. The Air Service established more flying schools; it drew up requirements forcing Ameri- can manufacturers to improve their planes if they wanted to do business with the Army; it began ordering planes with European engines, whic h were gene: flight instruments, in the planes on hand. In addition to all this, Scriven himself learned to fly so he would better understand aviation needs.  ally superior;