941, Knerr wrote to Andrews about his continuing campaign, waged in letters and magazine articles, for an independent air force. He felt he was making some progress, but “the biggest problem left is to devise a means that will ensure having as its first air marshal FMA [Frank M. Andrews] instead of HHA [Henry H. Arnold] Frankly, | am stumped. Looks like the only way to do it would be to discredit the leadership of HHA while FMA was fighting for the things that the present war has proven to be essential to victory. Although he lifted no finger to help me when I ne  ded it I can’t quite come around to smearing him. Besides it might discredit the whole movement if some- one picked up the idea. I could be accused of personal motive. So [it] looks like the old slicker is sitting pretty again :  Andrews, in a June 23 reply to this letter, took a carefully measured view, “I have not been doing much thinking lately on the question of higher organization of air power except to retain the conviction that it cannot be developed under an organization which considers it as an adjunct of surface forces; even with a man as broad minded and as far seeing as Marshall at the head of the Army. No matter how progressive Marshall may be himself the rank and file of the Army has not changed materially  “With reference to your dilemma about HHA, don't let that influence you in any degree. Arnold is capable all right. The main objective now is to get started. He is probably the best man available to head it up. He is a much better politician than you or I, as he very clearly demonstrated when he sat back and let us butt our heads against a stone wall and kept himself in the background. Whoever handles this thing initially has got to be a good politician.”  The June 20 reorganization of the Air Corps, giving it a large  measure of autonomy, foreclosed the possibility of creating an indepen-  HAP  dent air force at that time, and virtually stilled the debate on the subject Knerr, referring t