n its procurement and development must seem difficult to fathom. But the reasons for the delay are traceable  The closer the long-range bomber came to actuality, the stiffer became the opposition to it in the Army ground forces and in the Wat Department. Money for the military was scarce at the time, and the General Staff understandably didn’t want to see a huge chunk of it spent on an idea that had never been tested in a real war. On May 28, 1936, for instance, Westover and Arnold presented to the War Department a request that fifty B-17s and eleven other “ultra-long-range” four-engine bombers be included in the budget for 1938, A week later, on July 6, Westover received a directive from the adjutant general that said: “The 11 Project ‘A’ [ultra-long-range] and the 50 Boeing f-engine type aircraft now included in the Rearmament and Reequipment Program Fiscal Year 1938 will be eliminated and a standard 2-engine model substituted therefor in equal numbers. By order of the Secretary of War.”  At that time, the secretary of war was Harry H Woodring, who believed the nation’s only military need was to defend its shores. But Woodring did not reach this decision without guidance from the chief of staff, who was Arnold’s friend Gen. Malin Craig. A General Staff study, dated June 16, 1936, by Brig. Gen. George R. Spaulding, assistant chief of staff, and endorsed July 2 by Maj. Gen. Stanley B Embick, deputy chief of staff, undoubtedly with Craig's approval, shows how Craig actually felt about long-range air power at that time and how little  influence Arnold had managed to exert upon him, The  concluding section of the study said  175 & HAP  a. Un the infematonal sation inates the need fr [ch long-range types of bombardment aviation as the Project A and the fengine [Boing] models, no more ofthat ype shoul be procured eacepl fr experimental purposes  by Thata media range bombardment pe such asthe B18 model wil ul ll reasonable mary requirements and canbe used from the sandpei