wden, now a commander in the Navy, was  back in San Francisco with her, at least for a while. In her spare ume, Lois was busy trying to get some work done on the family ranch near Sonoma. Arnold had hired a retired soldier to look after it, but before the man got any work done, he broke his ankle and had to return to the Soldiers’ Home. The ranch would need a lot of work, but that didn’t bother Arnold. It would give him something to do during his own  retirement  Arnold’s one continuing worry about the progress of the war was ), in which he had invested so much of the missions from China had been so a great engineer but xen. Curtis  the performance of the B taxpayers’ money. Its first few unimpressive that he had relieved General Wolfe, without combat experience, and replaced him with Maj. G LeMay. Though he scarcely knew LeMay, he was well acquainted with the man’s combat record, his fierce deter mination, and his resourceful- ness. In two years with the Eighth Air Force, he had risen quickly from amander. He believed if he was tough on his men,  group to division com and thereby increase the likelihood  they would be tough on the enemy of their own survival. If he couldn't get the B  When LeMay reached India in September, Blondie Saunders, who return to the States to form a new B-29 wing, with him two more weeks and help him get s almost cost him his life. He took off 18 on a routine flight from an Indian base and crashed into the jungle, unnoticed, three or four miles from the end of the runway, Late the next day, when LeMay and an aide  found the wreckage of his plane, Saunders was pinned beneath one of the engines with a shattered leg and several other broken bones, But he  29s moving, nobody could.  was scheduled to volunteered to stay acquainted. Saunders's helpfulnes the night of September  in a B-2  Thomas M. Coffey = $52  Because Bee's hay fever was even more severe than usual in 1944, she and David were spending the summer at Kezar Lake in Maine. Hap, wit