t? Eventually it became apparent there was no German submarine in the area. A torpedo tube man in one of the escorting destroyers had pulled his trigger by mistake. It was with some relish that Arnold later told this story. He always enjoyed embarrassing the Navy  Despite the scare, the president and his entourage reached Cairo on schedule on November 21, after a side trip to Tunis, where Arnold stayed in the huge villa Tooey Spaatz was occupying. The main argu- ment in Cairo began with the question of whether the Allies should launch a January operation against the Japanese in Burma, but behind that argument was the greater question of when or whether they would invade northern France. The British remained cool toward both opera- tions. They wanted to expand the eastern Mediterranean front. On November 23 and 24, the Combined Chiefs of Staff almost came to blows on this issue but were unable to settle it.  From Arnold’s viewpoint, only one important matter was settled in Cairo, Roosevelt and Chiang Kai-shek agreed that his B-29s, which he hoped would be ready for combat by June 1944, would be stationed in China and would concentrate their attacks on the Japanese homeland. Already, Kenney (with MacArthur's support) and other air commanders in the Pacific were bidding for B-29s, and Arnold was afraid the Superfortresses might be parceled out piecemeal, like the B-17s, to several fronts, thus diluting their impact. When Chiang agreed in Cairo to provide B-29 bases in China, Arnold made an important step toward concentrating the world's largest bombers against their main target  On the twenty-seventh, the conference moved to Tehran, where most of the British and Americans met Stalin for the first time, Arnold and Marshall met him later than the others because, under the impres sion that they had the afternoon to themselves, they took off on a trip into the mountains. It was the next day before Arnold met Stalin, and when he did, he was astonished at the Russian dictato