s so eager to fight the Japanese that he sometimes seemed unable to understand or accept the Allied grand strategy, agreed upon by Roosevelt and Churchill, to hold off the Japanese while concentrating on the defeat of Germany  King’s most formidable aide on the staff of the Joint Chiefs, Rear Adm. Charles M. “Savvy” Cooke, who was also chief of naval war plans, often acted as if he had been made in King’s image and likeness, Orvil Anderson, the Air Forces chief of plans, could not get Cooke to recognize him as an equal on the staff  Cooke, referring to Arnold, said to Anderson one day, “Where do you get the queer idea that your man is a chief of staff ?”  “By edict,” Anderson answered. “By some new terms the president made up.”  ‘He's not a chief of staff,” Cooke insisted. “He is definitely—and  you might as well face up to the fact—he is subordinate to the War  Department  Admiral King, at Joint Chiefs meetings, would often indicate, not in words but by his behavior, that he shared Cooke's point of view. When Arnold addressed himself to King, the admiral was not above aiming his reply to Marshall, as if it were Marshall who had spoken, or as if it should be assumed that Marshall had put the words in Arnold’s mouth There was a tradition in military councils that equals addressed equals, but King, when he refused to address a full member of this body as an equal, was going far beyond tradition. He was telling an upstart he didn’t belong where he was. King was a battleship admiral who had only lately come to acknowledge the importance of air. Though he had earned his wings at the age of forty-nine, he was hardly an aviator Sometimes he seemed to blame Arnold personally for the fact that airplanes were now threatening to make his battleships obsolete  Cooke was quite literally correct in his remarks to Anderson. Arnold was not a chief of staff. But neither was Leahy, although he was now called the president's chief of staff, whatever that might mean. And Arnold was unq