o do, I'll walk.”  “You'll go on a stretcher,” Martin said, and he did  The ambulance came that evening and at Walter Reed, the young doctor’s diagnosis was confirmed by an electrocardiogram. Arnold had  suffered a severe coronary. The long hours of work, the efforts to supply  Thomas M. Coffey 304  aircraft companies, men who had already told him the B-29 was too sophisticated an airplane to be developed in time to help win the war Even some of the Boeing executives were so shaken by the crash that they seemed about to lose faith in the plane. Arnold would soon have to decide whether all those millions had been wasted on the B-29. If so, he would have a lot of explaining to do to the president, the Congress, and  the American people  Of more immediate concern was the declining strength of the Eighth Air Force in England."® On February 9, while Arnold was in India en route home from China, he had received through Marshall a radiogram from Andrews asking him to stop in England and discuss a buildup of Eaker’s B-17 force. The message said: “Bomber strength deteriorating rapidly to point where raids cannot be made in sufficient strength to disperse anti-aircraft  None of this was news to Arnold. Thanks to all the diversions, he simply didn’t have the planes to rebuild the Eighth immediately. But there was no need to go to England to tell that to Andrews and Eaker He was too tired, after Casablanca and China, for a side trip.  A few days after his return to Washington, he came down with what he called “the darnedest spell of the grippe I have had in years.” He had barely gotten back on his feet when it was time to go up to New York to welcome Mme. Chiang Kai-shek, who had come to the United States to argue her husband's case with the president—and while she was there, to do some shopping. (By the time she was through shopping, the A.T.C., at the prodding of the State Department, had to provide a four-engine C-54 cargo plane to carry all of her luxuries back to China for