ommand of the 8h Air Force, all the reasons that you have given are  those that have been advanced as reasons why he should go down and be commander of the Allied Mediterranean Air Forces.” He followed this  with another cable to Eaker, on December 21, which settled the matter:  The dictates of world-wide air operations necessitate major changes being made, This affects you personally, and while from your point of view i  i unfortunate that you cannot, repeat, not stay and retain command of the organization that you have so carefully and successfully built up, the broader viewpoint of the world-wide war effort indicates the necessity for a change, | extend to you my heart-felt thanks for the splendid cooperation and loyalty that you have given me thus far and for the wonderful success of your  organization, but I cannot, repeat, not see my way clear to make any change in the decisions already reached,  Knowing Arnold, Eaker decided it was pointless to continue the battle. On Christmas Eve, he wrote to his old friend a less than friendly cable of compliance: “Orders received. Will be carried out promptly  333. * HAP  January one.” But he was not a happy man as he took off for the Mediterranean. He would need time to overcome his resentment against Arnold. He wasn’t aware that it was Eisenhower, rather than Arnold, who had made the decision which sent him south. And Arnold never explained it to him. In Arnold’s old Army view, it would be improper for a senior officer to blame someone else for an order he gave to a subordinate.  The Arnolds had a quiet and lonely Christmas that year. Only Dave was at home, and he was growing up so fast he wasn’t there very much But Bee was more congenial than she had been lately, and they both had the ranch to celebrate. It was a hilly, forty-acre “spread” with an old house and barn in the beautiful Valley of the Moon near Sonoma, about forty-five miles north of San Francisco. Bee loved it and Hap expected to love it as soon as he coul