t. Therefore they had to pretend it wouldn't work.  This explains the Navy attitude about all the Air Corps tests, beginning with those Billy Mitchell conducted in 1921, proving that planes could sink battleships. Each time airplanes sank a battleship, Navy publicists and supporters would raise its soul from the depths on a tide of evasive words.  Until the B-17 actually appeared, the long-range heavy bomber had  we  Thomas M. Coffey # 176  factors may have contributed to Knert’s bitter belief that Arnold was not vigorous enough in his early support of the B-17 program. But Knerr was not alone in that belief. Gen. Orval Cook, then a major stationed at West Point, has recalled that Arnold, as assistant chief, entertained some fear that the B-17 program might eat up too much of the meager budget allotted to the Air Corps. Arnold wondered aloud to Cook, during one of his visits to West Point, whether the corps, in committing itself to the B-17, might be putting “too many eggs in one basket  Arnold’s close association with General Craig (they had become regular golf partners in Washington) must have conditioned him to some extent in the matter. He knew how to practice the art of the possible and he was developing some notion of how far he dared go in opposing his superiors. He may have argued privately with Craig about the B-17, but it is not surprising that he failed to dispute publicly Craig's decision to put the plane on ice, since it was Craig who had put him in the job he held. Arnold admitted in his memoirs that no one in the Army  ground forces believed in long-range air power during the period between 1936 and 1938:  there were no responsible quarters, either, who still doubted that the airplane had become an indispensable weapon. But that meant as direct troop support, aerial reconnaissance for the ground forces, communications and transport. Bombardment on its own, to some extent—yes. But the twin-engined B-10s and B-12s seemed good enough for that. No powerfu