ern- ment had been authorized to fly in a new and secret American bomber It was decided, either by officials on the spot, or after consultation with Washington, that the injured man in the plane should be identified as a Douglas mechanic named "Smithins.” This subterfuge was effective just long enough for newsmen to get around to the Santa Monica hospital at which Chemidlin was recovering from his injuries. There was something strange about a Douglas mechanic who spoke French so fluently and English with such a pronounced accent. On the twenty-sixth, when it was no longer possible to conceal M. Chemidlin's identity, the Douglas Company issued a statement confirming it  General Arnold, much to his regret, happened to be testifying  about Air Corps needs before the Senate Military Affairs Committee  when its isolationist members learned of the newspaper accounts trans-  forming Smithins into Chemidlin. Senator Bennett Clark of Missouri, an  195 » HAP  ardent isolationist, asked Arnold if he could explain the peculiar circumstances of the crash."°  The War Department was aware of the French mission's presence in the country, Arnold said, and was also aware that these representatives of the French government were going to inspect the new Douglas bomber.  And whose decision was it to allow representatives of a foreign power to inspect a new, secret, experimental bomber?  That decision, Arnold indicated quite truthfully, had originated with the secretary of the treasury, but he could assure the senators that all secret equipment had been removed from the plane before the flight  The questions now descended on him thick and fast. “Does the “De about Air Corps procurement?” There was no graceful way for Arnold  Secretary of the Treasury run the Air Corps? es he give orders  to explain why Morgenthau was exercising powers that should have belonged to the War and Navy departments. He ended by raising more questions than he answered, and by explaining almost nothing. He soon w