ral hundred B-17s over Europe, but the diversion of planes to the Pacific, and to Churchill's own Torch operation, had kept the size of the Eighth Air Force down to less than one hundred heavy bombers.‘ The  whole concept of daylight precision bombing depended upon fleets so  295 * HAP  large and with so much fire power and bomb power that enemy defenses would be unable to cope with them. In his view, the daylight bombing theory hadn’t yet been tested because he hadn't yet been able to send over enough planes to try it properly.  4 transport, Arnold, Marshall, and their aides landed at Bathurst in West Africa, where Gen. C. R. Smith and Gen. Tom Hardin of the A-T.C. were waiting to greet them. Smith was in Africa because Arnold had learned, in early December 1942, that the Navy planned to develop an  On the way to Casablanca in a new four-engine Douglas C  air transport service, which, in effect, would duplicate the A.T.C.? A day or so later, Arnold met Smith in the Munitions Building corridor and said, “I want to see you.”  They went into Arnold's office where he said, “We've got to do something about Dakar.” With North Africa under Allied control, the West African port of Dakar assumed great importance as a landing place for transatlantic cargo and passenger planes. “I understand there's four hundred thousand tons of shipping in the harbor and they've got a railroad and an airport. You'd better go over there and take them over.”  “Suits me,” Smith said. “Give me a letter.”  “I won't give you a letter,” Arnold said. s  30 over there, see what's wrong, and take care of it.”  Knowing Arnold, Smith went immediately to Dakar and made arrangements with the French governor general to assume control of the harbor, the railroad, and the airport, which he then undertook to enlarge. He hadn't been there long when he became aware of the real reason Arnold had sent him, An American admiral arrived one day with a representative of the State Department, apparently intent on doin