at when we were at his house for dinner.”  These lines suggest that Arnold had already become impatient with Marshall, whom he had just met a few days earlier, Perhaps he was simply expressing his eagerness to get this maneuver finished so he could return to Bee. He didn’t yet know about the high-level problems that had thrown Marshall into command of the whole operation. He didn’t know either that a shortage of small boats would delay the landing operation until the twenty-ninth.  Day after day, his letters to Bee continued, each conveying a warm love and tenderness that Hap Arnold, burdened with the notion of his day that a man ought not be demonstrative, found difficult to convey in person. On January 31, he pleaded with her to write him again. “I do not know if you are still in bed, are getting better or worse, and it worries me very much,”  By this time, the White Force, of which he was a part, had landed  successfully and begun its advance northward toward Manila. “These ‘Some  maneuvers are getting more strenuous every day,” he wrote Bee. days it is just a long hike over the road but yesterday and today we had to get the enemy out of a position and so had to hike over ploughed ground, through sugar cane fields and bamboo thickets.”  At one point on this march, Arnold and his company of Infantry came upon Lieutenant Marshall under the shade of a bamboo clump,  Thomas M. Coffey * 78  Arnold was crestfallen. “All this time we've been going without violets,” he said, “because I thought they were five dollars a bunch.”’  After a one-day stop in Guam, where Bee caught her first glimpse of Oriental life, they reached Manila in mid-January and went directly to Fort McKinley, As soon as they arrived they realized their honeymoon was at an end. First, they were moved into quarters that they had to share with another officer, and with cockroaches so large Bee attacked one of them with a broom and failed to kill it. Two or three days later they were removed to another ho