calls in their proper order from morning to night. He had already embarked on this nostalgic program when it dawned on him how his father might interpret the last one, When evening came and it was time for Taps, Bruce let the hour pass. !  A few days after Christmas, Bruce and Barbara left Sonoma for Cape Canaveral, Florida. Hap and Bee went together to Gordon and Josephine Tevis's New Year's Eve party, but they didn’t stay long. Mrs. Tevis noticed that he looked even less well than usual. He was so thin his  o one mentioned it.  collar hung loose around his neck.**  After the holidays, he went to work on the revision of his military aviation article for the Britannica, but day by day he became more aware that he was not up to the task. Bee, whose devotion to him had never faded, watched over him more closely than ever now, and made sure that Simmons did likewise. Hap and Bee both knew that the happy retirement of which they dreamed had somehow escaped them. They had never learned how to accept the joys of leisure. And now, because of his health, they were deprived even of such simple joys as a walk through their land. But they still had the shared memories of a long and for many years happy life together, of endless struggles, monumental events, and great accomplishments. And they still had each other. Through the best and the worst of times they had clung together.  It was on the thirteenth of January that Hap Arnold wrote his last bewildered, impatient and tragically prophetic telegram to the Britannic  am all at sea What's the score before I strike out days later, he was dead  ?" Two  he sixty-two lengthy interviews by the author and other research- 5 few listed below provide many of the anecdotes and details that help to make General Arnold an understandable, human personality. But the materials that verify the interviews, the primary sources on which the book is based, also listed below, are the voluminous docu- ments, correspondence, records, and reports stil