er nation. One purpose of lend-lease, and of producing planes for foreign countries, had been to build productive capacity for the United States when it was needed. It was now needed. The American people wanted the United States to have an air force, and they wanted action quickly in Europe. The American dec  ion did not mean there would be fewer American planes operating out of England. It meant only that Americans of the Eighth Air Force rather than Englishmen would be flying those planes  The prime minister said he understood the desire to have American pilots fy American planes, and he favored it. But he pointed out the necessity for maximum impact against the enemy in the shortest possible time. The Allies must, he said, have the maximum number of planes in action dropping the greatest possible number of bombs. And it was a question of maintaining strength now, for the next few months, not a year from now. He couldn't understand, he said, why the Americans were raising an issue about five thousand planes for the British from an anticipated production of sixty thousand planes per year  Arnold listed for him the demands for those planes from war theaters throughout the world, including British theaters such as the Near East. Churchill then called on Towers, who said the U.S, Navy problem was simple. From the sixty thousand planes produced, the Navy would need only torpedo bombers, dive bombers, patrol bombers, and fighters. That was all  Arnold, painfully aware of Admiral King’s increasing demands for B-24s, which were, after all, the central items under discussion  sked Towers if the Navy didn’t also need some heavy bombers,  Thomas M, Coffey * 272  British on the Bolero plan, but they had not told Churchill and Portal they were to get no U.S. bombers. They had enough trouble winning British approval for Bolero without spreading suc h bad news. In fact,  they weren't yet certain the British had actually approved inyasion of the conunent  Churchill had tentativel