ot explain them  os?  Was he running this place?  No, he wasn’t  Well, who was running it, then? “If no one else is,” Arnold said, will.”  He ordered Stephenson to prepare, by the following morning, a list of all shortages, Though it wasn’t exactly his job, he and his staff worked all night preparing such a list.* When Arnold received it, he handed it  over to Maj. Gen. Bennett E, Meyers, who was accompanying him.  Sit HAR  Meyer, who fund hme nob afer the wat origin the Ai orcs rove ogra had aby ben kc lh a ofhes at a dynamic an fete ake. Ald sa oi, He qo ns done"  Armd informed in tht he was ww the coro of th B29 nian program B te enh pl, 1 of te big amber vere spel oben A, and iva mae ue tay gt here,  Mes ands men ean pe after pa, hd tei shag enced hires reponse for eh needed pata fod them ov o Kans, Whenever  she eve sen plans o ethers Sine be led ove mento altho pars ina, vol  be cle the Bing aory and arrange thea fa mal a expe ducing cen gh ther enpraas tote the ase his, Dei anne stowstorm  corpany ight andthe et of bora, he hat ne geup, the th, ado go eras by Apr  ‘Twos hi one ony Bone Sudes, ad peel thpoup, Saunders are at Chal Tada, om Ap 9, and vas flowed vin wet en djs yer her anes” Bat ward jo Apri fre he ney and bombers crash eat Karach es, To ples vere  thee nthe Arian Sa, ing 0 cereal eg eld and ve men were il .B Wale, aso te en svg planes lA nan urge esa  grounded tht some method wold bao be found ook ees atlect afew B85 0  Adhd managed by ove of wl to Ain tine ke isp ee Roe Bat he haat  vet sed he ple’ lenge pole. woud be a ey  burden for bin cay nthe ys aed  Faller en dy in May he burden bane oo any and rl lve bist a ata in ours ons" This  eva sseee ath st tia serious enough to oD  Rowe Loe, When Aol! alsin, Lega prt st oda and wen within o Cr Cats Thi tin Be a venti bts was, Tho ewan, phat baron i Ares se was Sheba Home cua neous he as eing encuh and ht weigh Ina 0 von abn sv eh Ard no wor outers And Dee ws mas bel ase w ald bad abe  earn ase be a