y kind of cover, German  observers watching our movements up the road from the hill beyond. A tank blown to bits from running over a mine. Five bodies lying in small pieces on the ground. ... Jeeps and mud, trucks and tanks, more mud... bridges and culverts blown out by bombs... Villages and towns demolished. . . . Hospitals operating room. Removing bomb and shell splinters from [a] soldier’s head, pulling a mangled hand together, tying a body together after a shell fragment tore loose a hip and almost all of a buttock... holes in back and abdomen the size of a football  4 man with only half his innards, dying, but still smiling and saying “Pm all right  Though he was now a four-star general and one of the nation’s most distinguished soldiers, this was the first time in his life Arnold had been  in the midst of an actual battle.  Three days after his return to Washington, Arnold had to under- take, on December 18, the unpleasant duty of informing Ira Eaker that he was no longer commander of the Eighth Air Force. Because Eaker was a friend of such long standing, Arnold tried to break the news gently  by announcing his new jub first and emphasizing its importance, but  once again he was a victim of his notorious inability to convey bad news  gracefully. His cable to Eaker said:  look, while she was « Cairo, on December had bought “a rancl elation, “I own a ra  He was still ela But unfortunately h it was that he ownec the mortgage  Though Hank father to say hello a days and he had ar drove through the occupied when he This one had bee: absented himself jus who knew how to li much liquor that t trading uncomplime air forces, The usui win this war. All we even get your mail  Though the nec hours passed, Hank of the Air Forces anc by each other  Arnold, howeve morning he asked FE  “Lousy.”  “T thought you your chest.”  While Arnold 4 rage to visit the fron foot of Monte Cassi open road, bringin Hank and Rosie O' followed the others this area, realized | territory. They we