potting experiment was completed at the end of November 1912, but not once was he tempted to fly again. By  the time the two men returned to Washington it was evident that his  65  vy he had been, ‘d daring feats.* n an important dly fail to notice  1 before, and it  desk all day, he ve preferable. It 1 to remain in it begun to hate ght, whom he asure since they i are not at all e that we build strong machine models,”* But it mvince. Wright if the machines s, our Model ‘C’ of it in flight. We ight of machine ts bowing.”* He dives. It would e Wright, to sell ¢ plane that had  ch an appalling ablishing “flight to an additional order to collect r so fliers in the percent, would gun in America, advance the art, ng better planes re were already or every 54,000 y 12,800 miles.* more than one es per flight, he nonths of 1913,  66  Thomas M. Coffey  brush with death had filled him with more than temporary fear of flying. He had succumbed to a depressing phobia, which gave no indication that it might ever subside. He was not the first person to suffer suc ha trauma. The Air Service, aware of the mental strain of flying those unpredictable airplanes, took a fairly sympathetic view of grounded pilots, and Arnold, with his distinguished record and his comprehensive knowledge of aviation, was no exception. To make use of this knowledge, the Air Service put him behind a desk in Washington as an aide to Brig. Gen. George P. Scriven, now the chief signal officer. Arnold was thus placed in the ironic and anomalous position of being a recognized aviation expert who was afraid to get into an airplane.  He was not happy in his new job. It was difficult to remain in the one branch of service that reminded him daily of his phobia, and to face every day a group of associates who knew why he was now a desk officer, and who might therefore consider him a coward though they would not say so. More important, he would never find it easy to shake from his own mind a certain sense of cowardice—h