think that I am  81 * HAP  increasing my capacity for loving, for otherwise I can’t explain it. . . . I miss you terribly and I want to violate your new rule and make love with you on Monday, Tuesday and every other day. You dear girl, I love you more all the time and can hardly see how I will be able to wait until I see you.”  By the twenty-sixth, his impatience to see her had almost reached its limits. “Darling I cannot seem to stand the separation this trip as well as formerly. It seems as if you have become dearer to me and more necessary in the last couple of weeks than in all of the time I have known you before, I am glad that I love you so much but sorry that it must be from a distance, temporarily at least.”  Arnold's thoughts were so deeply concentrated on his wife during these two weeks away from her that he gave the maneuver itself only distracted attention. Yet at times, when the big guns around him began to fire their blank but noisy cartridges, he could hardly ignore it. On the night of the twenty-fourth, he was routed out of “bed”—the hard rock of Corregidor covered by just a blanket, under a shelter half—when the enemy fleet launched an attack on the island. “Search lights turned night into day, and guns were fired continuously. Red and green lights were sent up over various batteries showing that they had just opened or just ceased to fire. We were being bombarded by the enemy's fleet. The search lights picked them up about 10,000 yards out at sea. While all attention was being directed toward the hostile fleet, a small boat towing barges supposed to be loaded with troops sneaked around toward Manila. . . . That bunch escaped observation until it was almost past and then the lights that were turned upon it made even the port-holes visible. The Regimental Reserves were called out. All the boats disap-  peared, the firing stopped, the search lights were turned off one by  one.  It seemed, as he described it, that the defense of Corregidor had prevaile