o think seriously about the potential of the improved P-51.  Lovett’s assessment wasn’t Arnold's first warning that long-range fighters were going to be an absolute necessity. In late May, Col. Emmett “Rosie” O'Donnell, a one-time West Point football hero (and teammate of Blondie Saunders), who had distinguished himself as a B-17 com- mander in the Pacific and was now a member of Arnold's council, went to England to find out what could be done for the Eighth Air Force. On his return, he wrote a report, dated June 12 and entitled “Ineffective Fighter Support to Bombardment in the U.K.” It seemed to him the fighters were doing almost nothing to protect the bombers  If the P-47 airp! on fairly deep pene  ne does not actually have the ability to escort  tions, we have been badly fooled and our planning is extremely faulty The large number have allocated to the U.K. are not paying their way if tion in the bor  fighters we neir participa er offensive comprises escort across the Channel only. This in effect simply insures the bombers’ safe delivery into the hands of the wolves.  Arnold did not dispute either O’Donnell’s or Lovett’s conclusions, but neither did he turn his full energy to the solution of the fighter problem. The fighter was essentially a defensive weapon, and Arnold’s  mind was always on the offensive. He wanted to strike damaging blows to  315 * HAP  Germany and only the bombers could do that. It was not surprising, therefore, that when he returned to work after his heart attack, his mind was on the bombers. It seemed to him he had sent a lot of them to England. What were they doing? Why weren't they flying more missions? Why weren't the bomber and fighter commanders more aggressive? As for the fighters, in a June 22 directive, he turned that problem over to Barney Giles:  Attached are Mr. Lovett’s comments on the P-47 situation in England. This brings to my mind very clearly the absolute necessity for building a fighter airplane that can go in and come out