o had always been friendly. He had also graduated from the Army War College in 1933. He outranked Arnold as a lieutenant colonel by one year, But he had entered the Air Service in 1917, several years after Arnold, and in 1934 he was commanding a pursuit group at Selfridge Field, Michigan—a less impressive position  t than Arnold's, with a pursuit and a bomber group plus a large base  under his control  Arnold had told Bee about Foulois’s promise of a star and it seemed to her that he was “feeling pretty good” about the possibility that he might soon be a general. But to his surprise and consternation he read the promotion list one day and learned that a colonel named James E. Chaney, a man who had never attracted much attention and was a yeat behind him at West Point, had been picked to get the star that Foulois had promised him.  As soon as he learned this, he called Bee and said, married such a bum.”  “I'm sorry you  ‘What are you talking about?” she asked  162  tiny: tai Kin hile cheats ino syle dill quit wll wh siti Srolhtl i Aint  ulin  yon  ital vi ] wl {hilt what gl ah aut  unt Wy joo chit oot  ge  wa! itt | ih  wl H  wal!    Thomas M. Coffey 164  revelations in her letters, and when she wrote asking his permission to  Thomas M. Coffey * 164  revelations in her letters, and when she wrote asking his permission to transfer to another school, he sent her a stinging reply, dated October 10, 1¢  with some sharp words about her attitude:  I should hate to think that you really meant what you wrote. I hope that we did not get the meaning which you intended to convey. I don’t believe that you are yellow—a quitter. I don’t believe that you think that you are so much better than the average run of young America that you can not associate with them. I can’t believe that you have made up your mind that you have developed so that you are far beyond others of your age  If we are correct in our interpretation of your letter, you had better change your mind right away and g