ppened a remar any war that might arise < work of four exceptional Kenneth Walker, Maj. Hay the plan assigned four basic the air over the Western I  strategy in the Pacific durir    Thomas M. Coffey 234  Britain sought territorial aggrandizement, and that both nations, after  the war, would foster the basic freedoms of all people, vanquished as  well as victors  nas M. Coffey 234 235 HAP  Britain sought territorial -agprandizement, and that both nations: after available in the early summer of 1941." Col. Hugh Knerr, who had been  the war, would foster the basic freedoms of all pec  le, vanquished as retired from the Army for medical reasons but whose health was now well as victors  apparently sound, had been trying since May to return to active duty His possible reemergence brought back echoes of the mid-1930s strug gle for the B-17, air power, and an independent air force. Knerr had not yet forgiven Arnold's self-restraint in that struggle, which he and Frank Andrews had led, and which he himself had never abandoned even though, like Andrews, he had been “exiled” by the War Department for his part in it.  In February 1938, after being relieved as chief of staff, G.H.Q. Att  Thomas M. Coffey 34  Britain soug  ul territorial aggrandizement, and that both nations, after the war, would foster the basic freedoms of all people, vanquished as well as victors  While the president and the prime minister worked on the wording of the charter, their top generals and admirals conferred about more concrete military possibilities, Once again Arnold was disappointed by the narrowness of British thinking and appalled by the number of aircraft and amount of materiel they were seeking from America. They wanted four thousand heavy bombers at a time when the United States  was producing only five hundred a month. Yet they didn’t seem to have any long-ra:  ge plan that anticipated the defeat of Germany or even the invasion of the European continent.  ‘British long-range plan,” Arnold wr