ld see why neither Hoag nor anyone else might like the experience. Smith, who had virtually covered the globe during his years as an airline executive, found the Himalayas “the toughest flying place in the world You could be flying at 25,000 feet and look up at mountains.” The monsoon rains were so severe that one A.T.C. station had been soaked with 244 inches in a year. The C-46s and C-47s that flew the route couldn't get above the mountains. They had to fly through the saddles, dodging clouds as well as peaks because inside any cloud there could be a peak, Since the Himalayas sloped toward sea level on the south  and east, a more southerly route would have been easier, but there was one  important deterrent. It would take the unarmed cargo planes over  341 * HAP  Burma, Indochina, and southern China, which were held by the Japanese  At the makeshift A.T.C. bases in India, there was such a housing shortage that hundreds of men had to live in tents, which increased the danger of malaria, During the monsoon seasons, twenty percent of all personnel became malaria victims. On days when it was not raining, temperatures reached 130 degrees, making the aircraft metal so hot the mechanics couldn't work on it. Much of the maintenance had to be done at night, which was when most of the rain fell  The heavy losses, due mostly to the mountains and the weather, had brought morale as low as Arnold had feared, and Smith realized something substantial would have to be done soon, Housing would have to be improved, And the two-engine C-47s and C-46s would have to be 54s. But that would take time. What Smith  suggested immediately in messages back to Wes!.ington was the appoint  replaced with four-engine ¢  ment of a commander who would stay on the spot and even fly the route himself. He recommended Brig. Gen, Thomas Hardin, a pilot who once worked for him at American Airlines, Hardin took command March 15 and the tonnage went up immediately. At the end of 1943 it had been 12,000 mon