here it could no longer be settled by words. The three of them interrupted the chess game and went down to the ordnance department to weigh the two guns plus their ammunition. When they returned, the argument appeared to be settled. They quietly resumed their chess game and had played for several minutes when one of them said, “We forgot to weigh the linkage [the chain which feeds the machine gun bullets into the gun].” Without further ado they stood up and headed for ordnance again.  In late 1933 Spaatz was transferred to the Washington office of Gen. Benjamin Foulois, who was then Air Corps chief. On February 10, 1934, Arnold and Eaker were playing golf at a private course a few miles from March Field when a messenger arrived and said Spaatz, in Washington,  Cid Ted 1D  rnold and his pilots undertook one other relief mission while he A was at March Field, but for this one he received no criticism During the winter of 1932-33, the blizzards were so heavy in New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, and Colorado that many remote Indian settle- ments in those states were stranded and threatened with starvation. When Arnold was asked if he could help these people, he had no idea how, but he said yes  He assigned a bombardment squadron, under Capt. Charles How- ard, to figure out a way to drop food from airplanes. It would be totally unfeasible to use parachutes, since in the windy mountains the packages might drift so far away from the target settlements that the Indians would be unable to get through the snowdrifts to recover them. Howard and his men finally devised a packet so well cushioned that, as one of them said, they could “drop a dozen eggs without breaking a damned one.” Arnold's pilots then located the settlements with the aid of Indian agents, and for several weeks, in Arnold’s words, “bombed them with food.” They had devised a dead-drop method that would still be useful many years later during the Berlin airlift  Arnold's daily concerns at March Field were organization,