the General Staff would appreciate another one like it. Was Arnold certain, Patrick asked, that he perferred a court-martial, consid- ering all its implications for the service and for his family? Yes, Arnold was certain.  In that case, General Patrick told Arnold, he would take the matter up with higher authorities, and meanwhile, he was dismissed,  A few days later, Arnold was again summoned to Patrick's office. This time, the chief of the Air Service was more relaxed—almost jocular  In your opinion,” he asked disarmingly, “What's the worst facility we have in the entire Air Service?  Oh, there's no doubt about that,” Arnold said. “It has to be Fort Riley, Kansas,”  General Patrick said, “Good. You are now the commanding officer of an observation squadron there."  March 10, 1933—At 5:55 p.m., Colonel Arnold, now commanding officer at March Field near Riverside, California, felt the earth tremble beneath his feet, then begin to sway in what was obviously a major earthquake, Despite the intensity of the quake, it was quickly apparent that the March Field facilities had suffered no significant damage Within the next hour, however, radio newscasters said the quake h ad wreaked havoc in several neighboring southern California cities isa ing Los Angeles, and had devastated Long Beach, where siete people were reported dead, at least one thousand injured, and countless thousands homeless. Hundreds of buildings had collapsed and hun dreds more were in danger of following them." ;  Fires were raging throughout the Long Beach business area  THe  renin bdr cml rece, ad  dl Ahi we ll  on he ah igh ea be  sedate bil nt ies he bag a  il af he baling tl pe, ied gh val cine tt, kh wr jing  leet a Te  hv arth ad is vk  supe ae cea be  any ceca igh en er i he a  tent  ‘nd ning rs, a ele  gba bey di, ld te ai wth ge  hoof gms, crag ev an lo aig  ad inj pn he ppl  Whe albedo rate so ei al nih of bh gn sated Nah H de i  The be Matty tat gut hut a Lng Death ooo Ca ia an rd ca deat in  A