tire seven-day crossing he was in bed with fever and chest pains. When the ship docked at Southampton the night of the twenty-fourth at ten, an ambulance was waiting in the drizzle to take him to a troop hospital at Hersey Castle, ten miles away. It was beginning to look as though fate had decided he should never get to the western front  On November | he talked his way out of the hospital in spite of some lingering symptoms in his chest and went directly to London en  route to Paris. There were rumors of peace when he arrived in F.  ance and he wondered if he could possibly reach the front before the fighting stopped—he wanted at least to be able to say he had been there. On the tenth, he arranged to fly over the lines, but the weather was so foul that  all planes were grounded, In his diary he wrote: “It looks as if I will go down in history as a desk soldier.”  On November 11, a British colonel agreed to drive him to the front They headed east at 9:00 a.m. and passed through the ruins of Verdun to the Argonne Forest, where they encountered the 103rd U.S. Infantry. Hap Arnold was at the front at last, right in the midst of the fighting, with guns exploding all around him—but the guns were firing in celebration, rather than anger. The hour of the cease-fire, 11:00 a.m., had arrived. Arnold has just missed World War I  advantage he hadn't counte the Air Service to go whe! There was only one place 1918, he came up with a g) A year earlier, in the fi Sperry Company and Chi invented and successfully | ing’s ingenious direction, t thereafter called “bugs,” German World War II bu pounds, but it could carry i across enemy lines. It woul launch from a simple tra development was far enou telling Pershing about its a In September, when interested in the bug, Arn France, Instead of sending the Supreme American C tion. His third child and s born July 17 without comp their Dupont Circle mansi« was obviously capable of ! instance, was a source of hostility toward her tiny bi iro