s satisfaction by the summer of 1938. Hank was preparing for his third year at West Point. Bruce, after some difficulties adjusting to Washington schools, was set to enroll at the Naval Academy in Annapolis, which his father, despite the Air Corps-Navy contention, considered the next best thing to West Point. And the previous Thanks- giving Lois had married a handsome Navy flier, Ens. Ernest M Snowden, and they were living in San Diego, where he was stationed.  Arnold had suffered through some stormy episodes with Lois. When the Arnold family had arrived in Washington at the beginning of 1936, she had enrolled in a secretarial school at her father’s insistence. She wanted to return to California, where she had been promised a job at Consolidated Vultee Aircraft Company, but he said she could go only after she finished her course. With this incentive she worked hard and hen she left for S  graduated from the school in six months. 4 n Diego in the summer of 1936, after a dramatic farewell to Washington from the door of the DC  of the stairs, with the family looking up and waving goodbye, she  3 airliner on which she was to travel, Standing at the top  launched into a long speech about the goddamned city of Washington and what a horrible place it was. “Thank God I’m out of it now,” she concluded.  “Get the hell on that airplane  her father shouted, and away she went.  At Consolidated in San Diego she became assistant editor of the plant newspaper, and it was there she met Ernie Snowden, who, like her father, was a dashing military aviator, but unlike her father, was a heavy drinker. Nothing could have suited her better. After their marriage they  Thomas M. Coffey 178  “retired” from the Army. Lt. Col. George Kenney was sent to Fort Benning, Georgia, as an Infantry instructor. And Lt. Col. Joseph McNarney was transferred to an Air Corps post on the West Coast."*  In March 1939, Andrews was relieved of his G.H.Q. Air Force command, thus losing his rank as a temporary maj