ld when he arrived there. Like most officers, he would have preferred to command an operational unit, yet he was not in a mood to complain. He had at least been brought back from exile. He might have a future in the Air Corps after all. General Fechet seemed to like him, and he now had two close friends, Spaatz and Eaker, in Fechet's office.  Dayton also brought mixed memories to his mind, because it wa here that he had learned to fly the Wright airplanes that had almost killed him in 1912, With Hank and Bruce at his heels, he went one day to visit the old Wright flying field and hangar at Simms Station, the scene of his first flights. The little shedlike hangar was still there, the door held shut by a rusty padlock, which he easily broke. Inside there was only one reminder of his scary days with the Wright brothers—a long, thin pole to which a faded, mildewed piece of red cloth was attached. It was the signal flag the Wrights had waved whenever they wanted their fliers to come in and land. Bruce found it hard to believe that “this old man who  was my father [he was only forty-three] was once a young lieutenant flying an ancient pusher [a plane with rear propellors] while the inventors of the airplane stood and watched and corrected him.”'  oting the decrepit condition of the hangar, Arnold sent c carpenters to repair it, and requested that the government preserve it as a historic landmark. (It stands now in the Air Force Museum at Dayton.)  At the same time, Arnold was equally determined to destroy another relic of early aviation, the Barling bomber, that huge, under- powered, and badly designed plane built at the behest of Billy Mitchell between 1919 and 1923 for the purpose of proving his arguments about the irresistible power of large, long-range aircraft. Its World War Liberty engines, used because Congress refused to appropriate funds for the  development of larger ones, were so inadequate that although the plane  138  139 HAP  was able to fly in the fairly fl