sfer into exile at Fort Riley, Kansas. Not the least bit intimidated by what had happened to Mitchell, he persisted, with the help of staff colleagues like Millard F. “Miff” Harmon, Ira Eaker, David Lingle, and H. A. “Bert” Dargue, in feeding  Thomas M. Coffey * 124  increased appropriation for it when a thunderous roar of aircraft engines overhead shook the hearing room in the House of Representa-  tives Office Building. Moments later, Major Arnold took the witness chair, and exclaimed,  ntlemen, you have just heard the noise of the entire air force of the  United States. Thirty-five planes. That's all.” Chairman Morrow, when he recovered from his surprise, be an to say those thirty-  an  bombarding Arnold with questions. “Do you m five planes are all we have in the United States? “It is the entire air force of the Army,” Arnold declared  “But does it include the Navy?”  “Oh, no. Just the Army, But that is all we have for land defense.” Arnold then explained that General Patrick had ordered an assembly of all available airworthy planes to take part in maneuvers at Mitchel and  Langley fields. “Those thirty-five planes ar all that we could get “It is everything we had in  together in the whole United States,” he said. pursuit, observation and combat. Just think of it, gentlemen. There are ten bombardment, twelve attack and thirteen pursuit planes, and that is all. We thought we were going to have forty-five, but couldn’t get them. If anything happened to the country tomorrow, that is all we would have for defense.”  Morrow, still skeptical, finally forced Arnold to admit he was exaggerating slightly, but he didn’t shake the dramatic impact of Amnold’s assertion. “Do you mean to say,” Morrow persisted, “this is all you could get together for this particular demonstration, or all you could get together if Washington were attacked by an enemy?”  “It is all we could get together in a short space of time,” Arnold  admitted. “Of course, we have some more planes but they a