le is that four  years later, when Arnold graduated from West Point, he hadn't yet heard of the Wright brothers or their historic flight.* The only notice he took during his West Point years of mankind's early attempts to conquer the air was a casual observation of a balloon ascension from the academy ground in February 1906. Describing this flight in a letter to his mother, he made it obvious that he didn't take it very seriously. “I don't know why [the balloonist] selected this place for his ascension but he did. The 5 feet in diameter, almost a sphere. He inflated it with illuminating gas. After going up he went due north and was still  balloon was about 2  going north the last I saw of him.”  Arnold probably would have paid little auention to airplanes even if he had known about them, because he had developed a new interest —horses. While he worked hard enough on his mathematics, French, surveying, bridge-building, military problems, and other subjects to get by, placing himself securely in the unnoticeable academic middle of his class, he devoted much of his energy to riding because he had fixedly decided to become a Cavalry officer. It was his dream of the Cavalry, he later admitted, that dominated his life as a cadet. “That was why we were here! It was what we lived for—our whole future!”  To any young American soldier at the turn of the twentieth century, the Cavalry was still the most glamorous outfit in the world. Galloping charges against bloodthirsty Indians were not just the stuff of penny dreadfuls. They were the core of firsthand stories which older caval- rymen still told, with gruesome and highly colored details, to the young cadets. “When we speculated on the stations we would draw,” Arnold recalled, “we were not always sure whether the ones we named were inside now peaceful Indian reservations or on the frontier, but it didn’t seem to make much difference. We rode. We thought about horses all the time. We knew the name of every Cavalry hero; and o