nd try again the next day,” On the second attempt they made it to Prestwick, Scotland, the morning of the twenty-fifth, though the weather was still bad. Since it was impossible to fly to London, they boarded a train that evening and arrived there early in the morning of the twenty-sixth. Portal did not meet them for a reason he explained charmingly in a note Arnold received later that day: “Going to the station at 6 a.m. would mean that I should fall sound asleep at 3 p.m. just when I should be listening to what you were saying,”  After checking in at Claridg Ambassador John G. Winant and U.S, Army Commander in England,  e's, Arnold had breakfast with U.S.  Maj. Gen, James E. Chaney of the Air Forces. Chaney was the man who won the brigadier general's star Arnold thought he should have received in 1934. Since Arnold, with three stars, had now surpassed him, that incident was long forgotten. The two men had always been cordial to each other, but Arnold was poorly disposed toward Chaney at the moment because he wasn’t cooperating fully with Ira Eaker in the formation of the Eighth Air Force Bomber Command."* Chaney wanted Eaker in his headquarters and under his direct command, And since he was theater commander, his argument had force, but that was not the way Arnold wanted it and it wasn’t the way he intended to have it. Chaney was too conservative for him. He had decided that Spaatz and Eaker, not Chaney, would command the air offensive against Germany.  None of this came up during their breakfast, but Chaney did cast some doubts upon the efficiency of two American pursuit planes, the P-38 and P-39. Arnold didn’t like to hear that, either. He would have  owt  Thomas M, Coffey * 272  British on the Bolero plan, but they had not told Churchill and Portal . bombers. They had enough trouble winning  they were to get no U. British approval for Bolero without spreading suc h bad news. In fact, they weren't yet certain the British had actually approved inyasion of the con