aylight bombing, I think we're finished with it. I'm going to try to arrange a meeting for you tomorrow.”  It was three days before Churchill had time to talk to Eaker. Meanwhile, Eaker and his aide, Capt. James Parton, settled into a room in Arnold's villa and went to work. First Eaker wrote a two-page paper, “Why Have U.S. Bombers Not Bombed Germany?,” which explained that most of his planes had been taken from him (six hundred of them  went to Torch), the weather had been unfavorable, the submarines in the Adantic had demanded attention, and he didn’t yet have long-range fighters to escort and protect the bombers over Germany. But he concluded that if his force was rebuilt as planned, the B-17s would be bombing Germany before February  He and Parton then wrote another paper, “The Case for Day Bombing,” which was almost seven single-spaced typewritten pages when they finished it. Aware of Churchill's fetish for brevity, the two of them spent a whole day boiling this paper down to a memorandum of  less than one page which made eight points:  1. Day bombing was more accurate than night bombing.  2. Therefore it took fewer planes to destroy a target  §. U.S. day bombing and British night bombing (around the clock) would give the Germans no rest.  4. Air congestion in England would be relieved if Americans flew in  the daytime, the British at night  U:S. crews were trained for day bombing and would have to be  retrained for night bombing.  6. U.S. planes and equipment were designed for day operations.  7, Day bombing would destroy Germany's fighters by exposing them to the B-17's twelve 50-caliber guns.  8. Americans could ignite obscure targets by day, which the R.A F could find at night by the light of the fires.  Eaker met Churchill at his villa, submitted his short brief, and talked to him for a half hour, after which Churchill indicated he would drop his case against day bombing. But just to make sure Churchill had been sufficiently bombarded by the American argu