, “If I had asked for twenty-five thousand,” he said, “I would have gotten fifteen thousand. Now I've asked for fifty thousand, and if I don’t get twenty-five thousand, you  boys won't be here a year from now  He was coming to his office now at seven each morning and staying until at least seven in the evening. It seemed, at least to Eaker, who knew him well, that the strain of too much work was beginning to show in his face. If he was particularly irritated about something, or hadn't had  enough sleep, he would “come to the office pretty ragged.” He was also  suffering from occasional spells during which his heartbeat would increase rapidly. If he didn’t take the medicine prescribed for this problem his face would flush and the veins in his neck would enlarge. But most of the people around him considered these nothing more than  symptoms of his recurring impatience with men who couldn’t think and move as fast as he did  With the advent of summer, Arnold had to take some time off for  the graduation of his oldest son, Henry, from West Point; and after that,  217 * HAP  for Hank's marriage to a beautiful New York model named Kaye Hickey Arnold's pride was mixed with disappointment. Hank's eyesight barred him from pilot training.  France had fallen shortly after Roosevelt's call for 50,000 planes a year, and Congress reacted by giving the president all the money he wanted for his rearmament program. Suddenly the 50,000 planes per year looked like a dream about to come true. Within two weeks after Congress supplied the funds, the Air Corps had closed contracts for 11,000 planes. Legal officers at Wright Field were signing as many as a thousand contracts a day for everything from aircraft to potatoes. Arnold observed that the funds now available were enough “to stagger any mere officer,” and “seemingly sufficient to buy anything for anybody at any time.”  All this money and all these contracts amounted to just so much paper, however, and did nothing to solve his immedia