ith European engines, whic h were gene: flight instruments, in the planes on hand. In addition to all this, Scriven himself learned to fly so he would better understand aviation needs.  ally superior; and it installed radios, as well as rudimentary  While the outlook for Army aviation improved, however, Arnold’s feeling about it remained dismal, and he made no effort to resume his flying career. His spirits were not lifted by an assignment he received in late spring to supervise the closing of the flying school at College Park. The winters in Maryland were not hospitable enough to make twelve- month flying practical there in open-cockpit planes. The new schools were being established in California and southern Texas, where the climate was milder. But Arnold had some fond memories of College Park, as well as some chilling ones, and the job of closing it was a  constant reminder that he was also closing out his own flying career in a less-than-glorious way.  During May, while he was immersed in this unwelcome assignment, he received a visit in Washington from his sister, Betty, and Eleanor Pool, who had traveled to West Point together in 1907 at the suggestion of Arnold's father. Six years later, Dr. Arnold still thought the banker's daughter would be a good catch for his son. As the Pool family doctor, he was again treating Eleanor, this time for hay fever, from which she suffered chronically, and again he prescribed a trip to see his son as the best possible cure for her, He mentioned that his daughter, Betty, then in Richmond, was going to Washington to see her brother. It would do Eleanor a world of good, he suggested, to go along and keep Betty company. Eleanor, quite uninterested in his daughter but much more interested in his son now than she had been in 1907, agreed that be a pleasant change from her life in Ardmore.®  The unfortunate Betty was never asked if she would like company in Washington; she simply had to make the best of it, despite the fact that  wo