t above it, and in the process established a military altitude record of 3,260 feet. On August 18, he broke that record by flying to a height of 4,167 feet.* That same  Thomas M. Coffey # 48  being controlled by it. Besides repeated takeoffs and landings, they tried tight turns, figure eights, climbs, dives, and all the other maneuvers about which they had heard the boys in the hangar brag. One day Arnold even tried racing his plane against the interurban electric train that ran past the field.*® At about forty-five miles an hour, the train won. Now that he had mastered the mechanics of operating the aircraft, flying began to be fun, but he didn’t mention that in his weekly reports. His May 20 letter to the chief of the Signal Corps, for example, indicates nothing but hard work:  Sir I have the honor to report the following progress, made in operating the Wright machine, during the week ending this date. I have taken the machine up by myself eleven times for a total time of one hour and forty minutes. During weather not suitable for flying I have been studying the construction of the machine. Very respectfully, Henry H. Arnold 2nd Lt., 29th Inf.  By mid-June, when they had completed their course of instruction under the Wright brothers, Milling and Arnold were the only two fully trained and qualified pilots in the Aviation Service. They had earned certificates, soon to be delivered, as U.S. Army Aviators Numbers One and Two, and, with about fifteen hours of experience in the air, they were ready to instruct others in the art of flying. On June 14, having sent one of the two new Wright B-model planes ahead of them, dismantled and packed in a boxcar, they reported at what was to become the first regular Army flying school and air base, near College Park, Maryland, about seven miles northeast of Washington. The Signal Corps was then in the process of taking over the thousand-acre site, a civilian “airfield”  which adjoined the Baltimore & Ohio Railway yards on one side