also in San Francisco at that time plenty of brothels and houses of assignation offering their temptations to unattached men, but the best of these a young officer couldn't afford, and the others he couldn’t afford to be seen in. There is no indication that Arnold ever was seen in any of them. He hadn't overcome his adolescent clumsiness and puritanical stiffness around women, and he still remembered fondly Miss Eleanor Pool, the Ardmore girl who had waved at him in his top-floor window when he was confined to barracks at West Point the previous April. During his summer leave he had even seen her at a party in Ardmore, but he had never brought himself to tell her how attractive he found her, or even to invite her out for an ice-cream soda and a walk in the park.*  On November 5, the new “shavetails” embarked for the Philippines on the transport Buford, a remodeled cattle boat, “very narrow in the br harbor directly into six days of a Pacific storm, during which Arnold was  n and as rough as a ship could be.”* It steamed out of San Francisco  29  Thomas M. Coffey 28  general, Arnold was ushered back into the room and had to listen again, this time more thoughtfully, to the same speech he had heard a few minutes earlier. To make himself unmistakably clear, the adjutant general added that only Secretary of War William Howard Taft had the power to change this assignment to the Infantry, and the secretary was at present on a trip to the Philippine Islands. However, if Arnold had any preference in Infantry stations, perhaps something could be done about that.  Infantry stations! Arnold suddenly realized he couldn't name any Infantry stations. He could, of course, name such installations as Forts Wingate, Custer, Apache, Crook, and Riley, since they were Cavalry hey constituted the bulk of the Army. Surely he  stations. Infantry! could think of a few of their stations. Yet his Cavalry-laden mind refused to come forth with any. Where was it the secretary of war had gone? To