The new president had been an Artillery captain in World War I. Would he be sympathetic to the Air Forces, or to the concept of a separate air force? It was something that should not be left to chance.  Spaatz suggested to Arnold that he go right back to Washington because he was the man to lead the campaign for a separate air force, and with the advent of a new administration, this was the time to lay the foundation for it. Even working part-time, Spaatz believed, Arnold could do the job better than anyone else.**  Arnold reacted to this with a surprising show of self-preservation. Earlier that day he had arnounced to Iva Eaker that he would have to come home and run the Air Forces for him, and that he was to bring along Fred Anderson, Doolittle, ( abell, Kuter, and Vandenberg, all of  Thomas M, Coffey  and the bathtub, like Goering himself, was huge. “Goering must have sat  down with a thud,” Arnold observed, “for the porcelain is crackec  Arnold was in bed by 9:30 the night he arrived, because Dr Marquardt was determined that he get plenty of sleep—as was George Marshall back in Washington. Marshall had reacted favorably to Ar- nold’s travel plan because it would get him out of Washington, where he was seldom able to relax, but Marshall did not want him to go to Europe and act as if he were still in Washington. The two men had talked earnestly about this before Arnold left for Europe, and Arnold had promised he would take it easy  He did, at least, get up “late” his first morning in Paris. “The doctor must have given me a slug, for I didn’t awaken until 8:15.” Then with Tooey Spaatz, Marquardt, and others, he took a drive through Paris (“a sorry city [with] scars from street battles”) to the airport, where they took off for Rheims and a long lunch with Eisenhower at his headquarters. After a visit to Spaatz’s headquarters, he flew back to Paris in time for drinks with his staff, then dinner and gin rummy. Summing up this “lazy” day, he claimed to have had two hou