imself, his crew, and several plant  employees.” When Arnold learned of the tragedy, he called ¢ the Wright Field commander, and said, “Look, we're in trouble about  sen. Oliver Echols,  this thing. What're we going to do?”  Echols said, “I'll send you some of our best people.”  Gen. K. B. Wolfe of the materiel command went immediately to Washington and Arnold put him in charge of a committee to study the entire B-29 project. But that didn’t silence the criticism, Reactions reached Washington within hours, especially from executives of other  any € they depa arrivi trout  wrote trash that Acco as loi being ] (Japa recal a pla detor they dowr the ¢ there at an from press noth  were then  excel both:  tively  didn  lot o Ame  Thomas M. Coffey 304  aircraft companies, men who had already told him the B-29 was too sophisticated an airplane to be developed in time to help win the war. Even some of the Boeing executives were so shaken by the crash that they seemed about to lose faith in the plane. Arnold would soon have to decide whether all those millions had been wasted on the B-29. If so, he would have a lot of explaining to do to the president, the Congress, and the American people  Of more immediate concern was the declining strength of the Eighth Air Force in England."® On February 9, while Arnold was in India en route home from China, he had received through Marshall a radiogram from Andrews asking him to stop in England and discuss a buildup of Eaker’s B-17 force. The message said: “Bomber strength deteriorating rapidly to point where raids cannot be made in sufficient strength to disperse anti-aircraft."  None of this was news to Arnold, Thanks to all the diversions, he simply didn’t have the planes to rebuild the Eighth immediately. But there was no need to go to England to tell that to Andrews and Eaker He was too tired, after Casablanca and China, for a side trip,  A few days after his return to Washington, he came down with what he called “the darnedest spell