pelled planes made Arnold aware that his long-held dreams of an age of flight were soon to become reality. How could the United States protect its national interests in the expanding airline industry, and what role could the Air Forces properly play?  These were not new questions in Arnold's mind. A year earlier, on March 25, 1944, he had written a memorandum to President Roosev elt  Thomas M, Coffey * 364  whom were then in Europe. He was thus acknowledging thi no longer handle the kind of burden to which he had been a His response to Spaatz’s suggestion indicated that he had respect for his most recent heart attack. “I am of the opi would only make an invalid of myself if I returned before Ea men whom I am getting from Spaatz. I realize that the: spade-work to be done right now—with a new President, anc Germany coming to a close. I cannot see my way clear to ¢ ruin myself again physically, when there is so little chance of change in Air Force activities.”  He seemed also, in that observation, to lack confide campaign for a separate air force would succeed. But he want to fight for it anyway  By this time, Arnold was tentatively planning to continu Pacific instead of returning home from Europe, but whe  learned about this plan, he sent a cable, on April 17, objecti  I am rather depressed at seeing you start on another of strenuous trips, this time carrying you around the world. }  demonstrate to the Army and to the public that you certainly a on the retired list but also it may result in your landing there have to trust your judgment though I have little hope that y« curtail your wasteful expenditure of physical strength and m nergy  After reading this, Arnold observed that it didn’t “s confidence in my judgment as to taking care of myself.” It dic show that Marshall knew his man well, and in the even prevailed. Arnold decided to go only as far as Italy, observe U there, then return home via South America  Before he left Cannes, he talked to Spaatz and Eaker ; Eake