me, said the bad weather was the villain. They agreed to cut the schedule and tighten the weather restrictions, but still the young, inexperienced, and ill-equipped pilots continued to crash. On March 8 and 9, four more were killed, bringing the total to ten. Roosevelt summoned Kt sulois and Chief of Staff MacArthur to the White House for another “shave anda haircut.” He also put further restrictions on routes and flights, and more important, he hurried up his negotiations with the airlines toward new  airmail agreements  On June 1, the airlines finally resumed carrying the mail and the Air Corps was left to count its losses, It had suffered twelve deaths, sixty-six crashes, and untold humiliation, The public furor was so  Thomas M. Coffey 156  wanted urgently to talk to them, They hurried back to Arnold's office and when they reached Spaatz, he told them a frightening story. President Roosevelt, convinced that the Hoover administration had made fraudulent airmail contracts with the airlines, was canceling those contracts and asking the Air Corps to take over the job of flying the airmail. Furthermore, General Foulois had assured the president that the /  ir Corps was capable of handling the assignment. Arnold was to be responsible for carrying the mail in the western section of the country, an  which would include the routes connecting San Diego, Los Angeles, y  Francisco, Portland, and Seattle, plus the routes between Salt Lake C and all of those cities.  And he would be expected to start operations nine days later, on February 19.  Arnold told Spaatz he would get right to work on the job even though he knew he was flirting with disaster. As he later said, “My pilots {in the West] were mostly Reserve officers, none of whom, owing to the War Department policy of turning over Reserve officers in a squadron at the rate of 25 or 30 percent a year, had had two years’ service. Very few of the ‘regular’ civilian air mail routes had been flown over by these officers. They