orces Relief Society under Bee Arnold helped thousands of distressed or wounded airmen and thousands of bereaved families throughout the war, but it did not help bridge the gulf between Bee and her husband. She became as involved in her work as he was in his, and  they saw even less of each other.  On July 6, the first B-17 reached the Eighth Air Force in England, flying the Atlantic via the Greenland-Iceland route, but it was an .d satisfaction. By this time, Arnold realized how  occasion for only quali cleverly Marshall and he had been slickered out of Bolero. The apparent British concurrence in the Bolero plan to launch a massive air offensive against Germany and then invade the continent at least by the spring of 1943 was fading away as President Roosevelt listened to Winston  Churchill’s insistence on a prior operation under the code name  Thomas M. Coffey  Donald Douglas in the early thirties and was impressed by the cheerful brightness and vigor of this smiling Air Corps colonel, but the two never became close friends.  When the United States entered World War II, Smith, as an airline executive, realized perhaps even more than Arnold how essential air transport would be. “Wars in the past had been fought with steamboats,” he later observed. “It was obvious that this war was going to cover the world and you can't fight wars with steamboats all over the world, so we had to build up an airline  He and George began the job with a twelve-room office in the Munitions Building, several people inherited from the Ferry Command, and no airplanes except those in transit to operational units around the world. With Arnold's help, they chiseled a few planes for their first air routes (until he was able to start a steady flow coming to them from the factories); then, after developing a priority system for passengers and cargo, they began scheduled flights. Whenever they needed a directive to get something done, Arnold would give it to them. But Arnold's cooperation arose no