he had them fighting mad and that was what he wanted. On September 2  he staged his first mission, with seventy-three B-29s hitting a Japanese steel plant at Anshan, Manchuria, Because the sky was overcast and his men weren't yet sufficiently skilled in radar bombing, the raid had little effect. No planes were lost, however, and that was an encouraging change.  Meanwhile, Maj. Gen. Haywood Hansell, one of the chief architects  fel  el jE hs api Cas  cl  Pedi  ante 4x  seal ak  wd tai hla iy cul nyt tam aaunl ul hdl ‘ut  fr ing tate ai ai ti ha  eh do! ban lic Tranetice aul iit erty ile gi 1p Lots  fat ol ed a een eigen Vayu ult den i si edi okoencig etl yal eet pe dua ved ial a hie ep Aaya yl at eal tlh fade Mh iH ag he’ Ths ap cma vapor ama lok il lat Tin lat  n 1944 and early 1945, Hap Arnold was receiving frequent visits  from an Army officer the rest of his staff did not know. His name was Groves, Maj. Gen. Leslie R. Groves. The first time he came to visit, Arnold said to the new chief of his advisory council, Col. Fred Dean, “always let that fellow in. He's an old pal of mine.”  Thereafter, Dean would quickly usher Groves into Arnold's office, but he was never invited to stay and listen to their conversations. “You won't need to sit in,” Arnold would say, and Dean would discreetly retire, pleased that Arnold had this old friend with whom he could relax for a few minutes  Not unul August 6, 1945, did Dean find out what Groves and Arnold had been discussing.’ It wasn’t until the beginning of 1945 that Arnold's chief of staff, Lt. Gen, Barney Giles, was let in on the secret  One morning, Arnold called Giles into his office and said, “We're going to meet with General Marshall.”  When they entered Marshall's office, Marshall dismissed his secre- tary and an aide who happened to be there. Then he carefully closed all the doors and turned to his visitors.  “Giles,” he said, “we're going to let you in on a very close-top-secret project  But first Giles had to raise his