less pleasure for his wife, since he refused to eat what he called store-bought food. She had to churn the butter, bake the bread, and each autumn preserve a  winter’s-worth of vegetables from the garden she had to cultivate. Until her sons were old enough, she also had to chop the wood for her iron cook stove.  Mrs. Louise Arnold, who came from a neighboring Gladwyne farm family, the Harleys (which accounts for young Henry's middle name), was also a product of the Mennonites. Her parents were still members of the Church of the Brethren (sometimes known as “Dunkards” or “Dunkers” because they practiced baptism by immersion), but were less exacting in their beliefs than the Arnolds. They had even allowed their daughter to seek an education, making her one of the first “Dunker” girls ever to go to high school. Unlike her husband, but very much like her second son, whom she sometimes called “Sunny” because of his cheerful disposition and sometimes “Harley” in honor of her own family, she was fun-loving and prone to laughter. As young Henry grew  n the summer of 1893, when Henry Arnold was seven years old, Dr  Herbert A. Arnold, his father, sent him out to work, for room and board but no pay, on a farm near their home in Ardmore, Pennsylvania, a few miles west of Philadelphia.‘ To Dr. Arnold it was reasonable and proper that a seven-year-old boy should be put to work, not only to keep him out of mischief but to instill in him a sense of responsibility. Dr. Arnold’s own father, Thomas Arnold, a nailer by trade at the Hooven Nail Works in the Montgomery County seat of Norristown,’ had put him to work at that age, Though Thomas Arnold had disassociated himself from the Mennonite Church of the Brethren, which had be family’s religious affil  en the tion for two centuries, he had not abandoned all of the Mennonite tenets, one of which was that everyone should learn, at  an early age, to work. He had, however, abandoned another tenet of the Mennonites at that time—that six or