s, but they were destined now to be very close for at least the next two years, despite a certain element of competition between them. After their initial introduction to the Wright plant, they returned to Dayton, found a boardinghouse, and rented adjoining rooms.  Their training began with twelve-hour days of ground instruction at the factory, where they learned first how the Wright airplane was constructed and maintained, It was built around a light cypress frame and covered with canvas, which had to be stretched tight and then stiffened with a chemical paint. The control wires were exposed, and their tension could be tested only by strumming them like the strings of a guitar or a violin and listening for the proper sound. The plane's pait of side-by-side seats and the engine—just to the right of them—were also completely exposed to the elements, The two pusher-type propellors, located behind the double wings, were connected to the forty- horsepower, four-cylinder engine by bicycle chains, which Arnold scarcely trusted when he first saw them. (It was only natural that the  Wrights should have thought of bicycle chains to drive their propellors, builders.) Worse than that,  since they had begun their careers as bic ycle  essed, he lide their ey were d, would ses, turn back to  de on the lights, At nd was ¢  r instruc- 1 instruc- , and the ings were willing to of his first otten any off in an rople had  : that was  3 from his \e air was xt eleven 1 of three der flight. *" and on his ninth e. On the velfth, he flight, he in charge ned.  irritating of Arnold al pilot,” a vy the seat s believed e job, and h so much  Thomas M. Coffey * 44  in order to make the propellors rotate in opposite directions and thus balance the torque, the chain leading to one propellor had to be crossed like a figure eight  Well, you can’t cross a bicycle chain, Arnold said to himself when he saw it. It will break, It must break. Of all people on earth, two bicycle manufacturers ought to know