ng e Pentagon building.”  he would have to learn to take it he war no longer in doubt, there Travel would be more relaxing tine, but instead of going west, he e had been planning to go (for the xen. Larry Kuter had substituted e other matters that still needed senior officers were there and it king about the future of the Air ady to resume the long-dormant would also have to choose one of Air Forces as his deputy because ull schedule. And he was going to ic to replace Miff Harmon, whose ne flight, Barney hadn't yet been it was unfair to deprive him of it, mal staff together on March 31 well as Beebe and Clair Peterson) Paris. They landed the second of the suite at the Ritz that Goering to Paris. All the rooms were large  Thomas M. Coffey * 360  some good news to forward. The A.T.C, (now flying C-54s) had carried 44,000 tons of materiel over the Hump to China in January. And “over a hundred” B-29s had hit Kobe with incendiaries the day before, starting  great fires. Only one plane was lost, and it ditched in the water so near Saipan that only one man was missing  This news didn’t cheer Arnold as much as Giles may have expected, Arnold's reaction was, “Grand, but why not 150 or 200 [B-29s]?"*  By February 16, his health was apparently improving because his usual impatience had returned. On that day he sent Giles a letter devoted to his old theme: get more B-29s in the air against Japan. He was concerned about two newspaper stories he had seen  One talked of the one thousandth B-29 being produced at Wichita The other told of the Navy's fifteen hundred airplanes hitting Japan proper  As you know, if Boeing-Wichita produced one thousand B-29s, there must be at least another one thousand produced by Boeing Seattle and Bell-Atlanta if sixty or eighty is a maximum we can put over the Japanese mainland, a change in management is certainly in order, Nimitz, for instance, has every right to say, “Give  me command of these heavy bombers and I will get three hundred over Japan a