arge in Washington, he felt he again had an opportunity to move ahead.  With Fechet came a new name for the Air Service. It was now the Army Air Corps. In June, Arnold was invited to Wright Field in Dayton for an Air Corps board hearing, and while there, he made a concession to his father’s religious and fraternal sensibilities. He joined the Dayton chapter of the Masons. But he was never a deeply religious man, and his Masonic affiliation could hardly be considered an important factor in his life or his career  From Dayton he returned to Fort Riley and, while waiting for some new development in his career, resumed writing his Bill Bruce stories for boys. It was fortunate that he did so because, while he earned a total of only $1,200 for the books, it proved sufficient to pay for mastoid surgery, which David Lee had to have in March 1928. Bee took the baby to Kansas City for this operation and on March 31, while she was gone, Arnold said to Hank and Bruce  fou sit down and write to your  mother.” The results were succinct  Thomas M. Coffey * 154  known to get any urgent mail, no one knew the difference. At least he didn’t know the difference. All he knew was that he had mail on his desk every Tuesday and Thursday, which was apparently enough to make him happy. The following year, 1928, he returned to the Seventh Corps Area for a vacation in the north woods of Wisconsin, where Arnold repeated his trick so successfully that on November 28, 1928, he won a commendation from the assistant secretary of war.'*  In May 1927, after arranging the first Coolidge mail lift, Arnold and the rest of his squadron flew to Fort Sam Houston, San Antonio, for a war game maneuver. This led to the end of his exile because it brought him to the favorable attention of General James E. Fechet, who was replacing General Patrick as Air Service chief. When Arnold arrived in Texas with his observation planes, Fechet—a big, bluff, hearty man, friendly but tough and demanding—was angry because th