s had delayed the training of their crews. Blondie Saunders, now back from the Pacific and promoted to brigadier  illP TeH 19  en the American entry into the war, Hap Arnold had been counting on the B-29 Superfortress to play the major Air Forces ro  in the defeat of Japan. He hoped, in fact, that by itself it would force  Japan's surrender, An aircraft half again as large as any heavy bomber then in operation, the B-29 could carry twice the weight a B-17 could, and carry it twice as far. Its wingspan was 141 feet, its fuselage 99 feet long, and it stood 28 feet, almost three stories, high. Thanks to Arnold's persuasion of the president and the Congress, the U.S. government had already spent more than $1 billion on it before the end of 1943 and was destined to spend $3 billion on it before the end of the war, But the project was in deep trouble as 1944 began, and so, therefore, was Arnold, who had bet so heavily on it  The aircraft was still plagued by engine problems. The new, 2,200-horsepower Wright Duplex Cyclone that propelled it had been subjected to 2,000 engineering changes but it continued to overheat. Since the engine fire that caused the fatal crash of test pilot Eddie Allen in February 1943, several other B-29 engines had caught fire, though few fatalities had resulted. In addition, the fire-control and pressuriza- tion systems weren't yet functioning reliably, One man had been  ,000 feet. The radar bombing system was complicated to operate and often inaccurate. And  blown out of a gun blister by excess pressure at 2  the electrically controlled bomb-bay doors seemed to open and close at their own convenience  Arnold had once promised the president he would have the plane in combat by the beginning of 1944, but the bewildering succession of problems had forced him to renege on that promise. After waiting as long as possible, he had written a (for him) humiliating memorandum to Roosevelt on October 11, 1943  In connection with the bombing of Japan from Chi