nal a local action that got in the way of the overall war plan—a plan to which he still dung even if Marshall, King, Churchill, and Roosevelt had abandoned it.  “Though everyone agrees that success in the Pacific theater will not win  the war,” he said in an August 21 memo to Marshall, “we are planning to concentrate more airplanes there.” The war could be won, he declared, only by attacking German industry “relentlessly from now on i  King was not impressed by any of these arguments. On September 2, Arnold said to Stimson, wearily, “King never lets up. He has not receded one inch from any of his demands upon us, and I prophesy that he will eventually get them all.”*!  At a Joint Chiefs of Staff meeting on September King and Arnold argued bitterly. King wanted, for the Pacific, fifteen air groups originally intended for England but now reserved for North Africa. Marshall indicated that without those planes, Torch might have to be postponed, (Though he didn’t like the Torch operation, it was his responsibility to make it work.) Arnold repeated that what the Navy needed was not more planes but improved airfields and a better supply system. The only thing they could do with the planes, he insisted, was to park them on fields, while their crews would miss training and go stale. “In England,” he said, “they could be used against the Germans every day.” Kir “What is the saturation point?  x said, “We must keep the theater saturated.”  * Arnold demanded. “Certainly not several hundred [planes] sitting on airdromes where they can't be used.”  At this point, Marshall announced that Arnold was planning to go to the Pacific to look into the situation for himself. Admiral Leahy quickly interrupted the hopeless argument to suggest that the decision be postponed until Arnold's return.**  Arnold was so exasperated by the entire matter that he wrote in his diary the next day: “The Navy is hard pressed at Guadalcanal. It does need a shot in the arm, It needs it badly. But in my opin