hill, and even when he was pinned, no one could be sure what he was pinned to. In addition, only one of the American military men in China, General Chennault, was able to get along with him. Chennault was an operational genius but not very interested in logistics. The American Army commander in China, Gen. Joseph “Vinegar Joe” Stilwell, Chiang’s chief military adviser, held the generalissimo in such contempt he referred to him openly as “Peanut Head.” And neither Stilwell nor his air commander, Gen. Clayton Bissell, an excellent logistician, could get along with Chennault, their subordinate, who generally sided with Chiang against them.  Already tired from the Casablanca conference, and subject to occasional spells of un  <plained stomach distress, Arnold might well have done without the China trip. But someone had to go and mollify Chiang, who was angry at having been omitted from the Casablanca meeting, and Arnold had been elected because air help was about the only thing the United States could offer China for the coming year. At New Delhi, Arnold and his two fellow travelers, Army Gen.  299 * HAP  Brehon Somervell and British representative Sir John Dill, met Stilwell and the British commander in India, Gen. Sir Archibald Wavell, who seemed to Arnold “brilliant but worn out.” When Wayell showed him his plan for driving the Japanese out of western Burma, Arnold observed with his usual lack of tact that it was not a plan at all “but merely several pages of well written paragraphs telling why the mission could not be accomplished.”  He reached Dinjan on February 4, planning to spend the night and get some rest at an A.T.C. base there, but when he heard that Stilwell and Dill had taken off for K'un-ming, he said, “If Stilwell can go over the Hump at night, so can we.” He promptly ordered Peterson, his pilot, to go to the operations building for briefing.®  There had been very few flights over the Hump at night, but Genera! Bissell and his pilot were traveling with t