e ground from a moving plane 200 feet in the air. Once again, nobody at the War Department was interested  In September 1911, Arnold climaxed an eventful summer by  55 * HAP  ‘ih they taxied onto the bay, now glassy smooth, and turned into the gentle titihhh breeze to take off again for Bridgeport.  Ushio In retrospect, it appears that Arnold and Kirtland had too much thltyliy faith in the plane. They were so sure of its lifting power that they had iiaaw Overloaded it with an anchor for water mooring, ropes, tools, and their (2vi}own personal luggage, much of which they could have sent by land leit) (ransport. The previous day, when they had taken off from Salem into a tbivdn brisk wind, the plane had managed to lift this heavy load, but the wind fuciit! was so gentle the next morning that they would need a long run to gain Kiatiit enough airspeed to lift them off the water—a longer run, as it hap- tu pened, than Arnold had anticipated. “We managed to get airborne but ius were headed directly toward the steeples of the town. I tried to turn; the  sill plane slipped, and we dropped into the water like a stone.”  thaws One of the floats broke off on contact and one of the wings dulcis!) crumpled. Though Kirtland was hardly injured, Arnold, after scram- wiht bling up onto the remaining wing, found that he had severely bitten his why} tongue, dislocated one thumb, and sustained several gashes, from which vue he was bleeding freely. He had little time to worry about these injuries, innhyity however. What was left of the plane was in such imminent danger of aii sinking that in order to balance it on the remaining float, he and  Kirtland had to find just the right places to sit on the teeter-tottery wing. (uidtell And by the time they did so, they discovered they were drifting out to iWtotl Sea,  dichiynes A few minutes later they were heartened by the prospect of rescue iit? when a sailboat came into view and approached them. There were two Witt men on it and as they came