ttacks from every angle, the B-17s flew across Germany and inflicted even more damage on the Schweinfurt ball-bearing plants than they had done in August. But again 60 Fortresses failed to return home. These 60, added to the 100 lost since October 4, represented a depletion of Eaker’s force that he could not afford  Arnold, expecting an adverse reaction in Washington, sent Eaker an extraordinary cable the next morning. Apparently forgetting the cable he had sent four days earlier, which described the German fighter forces as “still-growing,” he now wrote:  It appears from my viewpoint that the German Air Force is on the verge of collapse. We must not (repeat) must not miss any  symptoms of impending German collapse... .Can you add any substantial evidence of collapse?  : In view of what the German air force had done to the B-17s at Schweinfurt the previous day, Eaker was hard put to supply any such optimistic evidence. He sent a cablegram describing the battle and assuring Arnold that despite the losses, “this does not represent disas- ter.” He was ready to continue the fight. “We must show the enemy we can replace our losses,” he said. “He knows he can’t replace his.”  At a Washington press conference on the fifteenth, President Roosevelt hedged in response to questions about the loss of 60 bombers in one day. Arnold, apparently unsatisfied by Roosevelt's reaction rushed into print in support of the Eighth Air Force: 4  This attack on Schweinfurt was not merely a spectacular air raid. It was an engagement between large armies—a major campaign. Ina period of a few hours we invaded German-held Europe toa depth of 500 miles, sacked and crippled one of her most vital enterprises.  We did it in daylight and we did it with precision, aiming our explosives with the care and accuracy of a mar ksman firing a rifle at a bull’s-eye.  We moved in on a city of 50,000 people and destroyed the part of it that contributes to the enemy's ability to wage war against us, When that pa