t was the responsibility, he pointed out, of the commanding officer at Fort MacArthur  “To hell with that,” Arnold said. “Those people need food."”” Before the night was over, the trucks were on their way to Long Beach  As the days passed and Long Beach began to recover, the need for help from the armed services diminished. Arnold was able to discontin- ue his Air Corps contributions, put the matter from his mind, and goon to other work. But not for long. He soon received a call from Gen. Malin Craig, at that time commander of the Army's Ninth Corps Area, which included the entire West Coast. Craig called to reprimand him and to inform him he was under investigation once more for a possible  court-martial—a result of his activities after the Long Beach earth- quake."  This time he was accused of giving away government property without the authorization of Colonel Hilton, the Fort MacArthur com-  mander and the designated disaster officer for the southern California area. j  F 940—Fo . March 1940—For more than seven months after Adolf Hitler's invasion of Poland had launched what was destined to become World  War II, there was almost no activity on the western front except for an  occasional “wake-up” gun-burst from the French dug in behind their  impregnable” Maginot Line, answered by a burst or two from the  Germans dug in behind their “impregnable” Siegfried Line. But  no- body, not even the dull  timid, foolish men governing France and  9 # HAP  England, believed that the winter lull would continue into spring and summer,  In America, Hap Arnold, now a major general and Chief of the Army Air Corps, contemplated this situation with the knowledge that his organization might be called upon soon to provide air defense for the United States, and he had only a pathetic skeleton force of untried planes with which to do it. Since becoming chief in September 1938, he had discovered that to build the Air Corps into the fighting force that might one day be needed, he had to