id. “Some of Craig’s colonels are trying to court-martial me.” But if Arnold was truly worried, he didn’t show it. He was so cavalier about the matter that Beebe, unfamiliar with all the circumstances, didn't take the situation seriously. Though Arnold scarcely knew Craig, Beebe got the impression they must be old friends, especially when Arnold, with Beebe still on his wing, buzzed the tower at Crissy Field. As Beebe knew, Craig had strict rules against buzzing.  When they landed, two military policemen were waiting to put them under arrest and, in accordance with the commanding general's stand- ing order, take them directly to his office  As Arnold and Beebe settled into the back seat of the MPs’ car Beebe stared at Arnold in wonder. If he was already in trouble, why had he compounded it by buzzing the tower?  Arnold anticipated the lieutenant’s question. “I wanted to give you a lesson,” he said, “in how to get quick transportation.”  When they were ushered into Craig's office, the general said, “Goddammit, Arnold! I might have known it would be you buzzing the tower.”  Ignoring that little matter, Arnold saluted and got right down to business. In a tone of offended innocence, he said, “Sir, why am I in the doghouse?”  Craig recalled later that he was astounded by this cross young Air Corps colonel confronting him so abruptly. After a half hour of spirited conversation, during which members of Craig's staff enumerated the complaints against Arnold and he rebutted them, he was no longer in the doghouse. He had charmed the older man so completely that Craig promised to visit March Field at his earliest opportunity and see for himself what the Air Corps was doing down there  Arnold was so elated when he and Beebe took off from Crissy for home that as they flew over the Tehac hapi Pass (after stopping for gas at Bakersfield), he went right down on the deck and, with Beebe c linging to his wing, flew all the way to Cajon Pass about fifteen feet above the ground. Like C