esentative, Larry Kute! Australia to break the news to him.  Tell MacArthur, Arnold instructed Kuter, that he won't be ge'    341 * HAP  Burma, Indochina, and southern China, which were held by the Japanese. At the makeshift A.T.C. bases in India, there was such a housing  341 * HAP  Burma, Indochina, and southern China, which were held by the  Japanese.  At the makeshift A.T.C. bases in India, there was such a housing shortage that hundreds of men had to live in tents, which increased the danger of mala:  During the monsoon seasons, twenty percent of all personnel became malaria victims. On days when it was not raining, temperatures reac hed 130 degrees, making the aircraft metal so hot the mechanics couldn't work on it. Much of the maintenance had to be done at night, which was when most of the rain fell  The heavy losses, due mostly to the mountains and the weather, had brought morale as low as Arnold had feared, and Smith realized something substantial would have to be done soon, Housing would have to be improved. And the two-engine C-47s and C-46s would have to be replaced with four-engine C-54s. But that would take time. What Smith suggested immediately in messages back to Wes!.ington was the appoint  ment of a commander who would stay on the spot and even fly the route himself. He recommended Brig. Gen. Thomas Hardin, a pilot who once worked for him at American Airlines. Hardin took command March 15 and the tonnage went up immediately. At the end of 1943 it had been 12,000 monthly, By the summer of 1944 it was up to 23,000, and still climbing. He didn’t exactly cure all the morale problems—he couldn't cure the heat or the malaria, and he couldn't make the men who flew the Hump enjoy it—but he did manage to keep them so busy they didn’t quite realize how miserable they were  In late February, Arnold received separate letters from Stilwell and Stratemeyer in the China-Burma-India theater expressing doubts about the plan to bomb Japan with B-29s from bases in Ch