he grandstand, surrounded by rooting cadets, and right behind a row of reporters from the New York papers, which were trying desperately to locate Lindbergh all over the East  Later in the afternoon, the Arnolds introduced Lindbergh to their son Hank, but aside from Hank, only two cadets even noticed that the lanky, curly-haired man with the visiting general was the famous trans-Atlantic flier. Before Lindbergh’s departure, Arnold asked him to serve on a board that would determine what kinds of planes the Air Corps should try to procure during the next five years. Lindbergh agreed to do so, and for the next two years, he worked with Arnold, supplying the Air Corps with valuable information about European, and especially German, aircraft. Arnold’s use of Lindbergh's knowledge, ata time when the Air Corps had no intelligenc ¢-gathering agency, proved enormously advantageous in the effort to improve American planes. But it did not help Arnold in his relations with President Roosevelt, who distrusted Lindbergh, first of all, because the man had accepted a medal from Goering, and second, because he soon became a leader of the America First Committee, one of the nation’s most notorious isolationist groups.  The spring and summer of 1939 gave Arnold a foretaste of the life he would live until the end of World War II. He was now embarked on a seemingly endless campaign to get more money from ( congress, develop better airplanes, hasten the aircraft companies into producing them at an ever-increasing rat  , build bases from which they could operate,  201  tt  HAP  Thomas M. Coffey 200  Military Academy? “How about meeting my wife and me at West Point for lunch at the Thayer Hotel?”*  When Lindbergh arrived at noon, he found the Arnolds alone in the main dining room of the Thayer. To help preserve Lindbergh's privacy, the manager had closed the room to everyone else. For three hours Arnold listened while Lindbergh talked about the strength of Hitler's air force and what Ameri