y another amazing stroke of luck, the knife blade came down between the tines.’  The 1931 maneuvers at Dayton were the largest the Air Corps had ever held, and Arnold, responsible as he was for all the supplies and accommodations needed by 700 planes and 1,400 men, learned an eye-opening lesson about the task the Air Corps would face if the nation ever again became involved in a war. In addition to fur nishing gas, oil, food, and medical care, he had to prepare the necessary airdromes; provide aircraft parking space, maintenance shops, spare parts, and mechanics; find sleeping and mess facilities in every location at which planes would be landing; and supervise the construction of a whole communications network. Because of the size of the maneuver, he had also to spread these facilities throughout central Ohio. “That gave us some idea,” he said later, “of the area we must contemplate using in ume of war when we talked of concentrating a thousand or two thousand airplanes.” '  This maneuver brought Arnold more than satisfaction for the job  immediate reaction 1 He was impatient fo done more quickly? were people arounc misdirected  Capt. Orval Co was now chief of the the target of that im by my desk practica doing a lot of resea wanted it done now had people going dc  time of others.  Maj. Grandison Engineering School Arnold's, but somet two men had a mi Gardner said to a f decisions. If he wou more of them right.” enough to justify his  Arnold's two br mischief, and Hank venture. He and a { which they cut out airplanes. One day t and proceeded to cu plane in which they immediately hid the When Arnold was | National Guard plar was aware of Hank’ done it knowingly, ar because he was so n any new insignia late about it.  On another occ plane that was still p was doing, he jettiso the concrete. At din dumped a tankful o!  Thomas M. Coffey * 144  he had done. One of the observers was General King, his nemesis at Fort Leavenworth, When the exercise was finished, King sough