[in hospitals] in the past. It’s no  fl ve fipiphigahy age hata Do ebseing apa veal” Ayetulbbe hay 1+ t belly Ae ikit qo dylan  let  fi  Typ ng tie Uebel salad enit sho then lech devbatabieibnaal hihi trthr sad dana dnc wera vag inihupelgick  ett sed xl ldinal neh fang “yun ot gakaenlek 10 joa dat agen Tia in pl yen talhidinaegh  yada dengan fe wykeeddnn bik asin qa yy atk ideale Ah a ww  rion (cifien nla fpekizibothn (piel  vt    315 * HAP  ermany and only the bombers could do that. It was not surprising, therefore, that when he returned to work after his heart attack, his mind  Thomas M. Coffey * 314  emphasized the still unfulfilled request. He had by that time received some wing tanks, but they were less than satisfactory. Lovett’s visit gave Eaker a chance to make it clear that he would lose fewer B-17s over Germany if he had fighters that could escort them all the way to their targets.**  When Lovett returned to Washington, he wrote two memoranda to Arnold (June 18 and 19) assessing the needs of the Eighth. The latest Messerschmitt 109, he said, had a definite edge on the P-47, but there were ways to improve the P-47. And one of those ways was to add auxiliary tanks. “It is increasingly apparent,” Lovett informed Arnold, “that fighter escort will have to be provided for B-17s on as many missions as possible.”  He suggested that the twin-fuselage P-38 might be suitable. (Actual- ly, as it was learned later, the P-38 could not maneuver well enough to cope with the German fighters.) More important than his P-38 sugges- tion was a remark he made at the end of his first memo, which seemed almost like an afterthought but was soon to assume great significance “High hopes are felt,” he said, “for the P-51 with wing tanks.” Day by day, more and more people were beginning to think seriously about the potential of the improved P-51.  Lovett’s assessment wasn’t Arnold's first warning that long-range fighters were going to be an absolute necessity. In late May, Col. Emmett