cuss any of it with my mother, as he had always done throughout their life previous to the war.” As for  any difficulties there might have been between them during the  re- tirement years, Hank made an observation no one could deny: “Their complete devotion to each other, to the day my father died, was a fact of life in our immediate family, and absolutely legendary among friends who knew them intimately  David Arnold, like his brothers, saw very little tension between his parents. While acknowledging that “they naturally had their off mo- ments,” he too recalled that “Mother was working a 12-to-16-hour day plus all her travels and Dad was gone a large amount of the time. When they were together they were a loving and friendly couple.”  If there was stress between the Arnolds, it was, indeed, understand- able. A lifetime with a man as professionally dedicated and personally tumultuous as Hap Arnold could not have left Bee Arnold totally unaffected.  While Hap lay in bed trying to regain his strength, he also became more conscious than ever of a long-standing concern about his daugh- ter, Lois, and her husband, Ernie Snowden, now a commander in the peacetime Navy, Arnold had known for a long time that they both drank excessively, One day, deciding he should no longer remain silent about  it, he wrote them a letter, which came as close to being tactful as Hap Arnold could get  This must be read as one of those father to son and daughter letters. These letters 3  € not easy to write, but I believe necessary For some time | have been convinced that you are both drinking more than people of your age should—more than does you any good—so much that it may be detrimental to your future. Won't you both think this over carefully? . .. Everyone in the services that I have met who knows you has you spotted as real outstanding people  I am not preaching—for God knows I am not that kind—but where you have so much ahead of you, why spoil it?  383. * HAP  In mid-May 1948, Bee trave