ad been working. Arnold and most of his men were familiar with the provisions of the plan because there had been a lot of give and take between them and the Andrews staff during its development. It was basically an Air Corps dream of its own expansion. Andrews was an Air Corps man and so was Major Kuter, the project officer. But while the plan contained few if any surprises for the Air men, Marshall himself had not yet seen it, and without his approval it would never become anything more than a dream.  Kuter made the presentation, which called for a huge expansion of the corps into a fifty-four-group organization, with all the procurement of planes and equipment, construction of air fields and facilities, and entailed  recruitment of men that such an undertakin Though every-  one knew by now that Marshall was more sympathetic to Air than any of his predecessors, no one was sure how he would feel about such an enormous bite out of the Army budget for a corps that had always been treated like the Army’s orphan  Marshall listened carefully without comment, and when Kuter was finished, astonished everyone by asking, “Why is this a fifty-four-group program? Why not fifty-six, or sixty-four, or more?”  After Kuter caught his breath, he said, “Sir, while presenting this program to the many agencies involved we have had to answer countless questions, Yours is the only one that has never before been asked. All others have been suggestive of less ambitious efforts.” Fifty-four groups was as many as the Air Corps could accommodate within the immediate future, he explained, but it would be possible to enlarge that number later.  That was all Marshall wanted to know. “The program is approved,” he said. “Let's get on with it.”  If Arnold had had any doubts about Marshall's cooperation, they were climinated that day. Kuter, recalling later the relationship between Marshall and Arnold, described it this way:  It defied description by usual categories. There was no back- slapping, n