ain, perhaps even anguish to him.  “Tf, to our regret, we of the Air Force did not find a rotten apple in our barrel,” he told the subcommittee, “we are grateful that others have done so. If we were at fault in not finding it, we must admit our fault We thought we had reason to rely on the integrity as well as ability of men entrusted with high responsibility.”  Less than two months later, in January 1948, Arnold was in bed again with another heart attack, this one so serious it kept him down for three months. It was Dr. Lee who put him to bed (at that time bedrest rather than regulated exercise was considered the best therapy for heart patients), but it was Bee who made him stay there, and while he didn’t always appreciate her insistence, he ac knowledged, after he was on his feet again, that it was she who “put me on the road to recovery.”  Bruce Arnold, who often spent weekends and leave time at the  ranch, felt that his parents were “completely compatible and extremely  Thomas M. Coffey 380  almost as a father now, and his affection for Simmons was obvious, though he would never admit it. Simmons and his wife occupied a house near the gate of the ranch and helped the Arnolds in every way they could, The two men would drive to Sonoma together and Arnold, still addicted to sweets, would buy pastries at the local bakery shop to augment the bow! of soup or the salad that had been his entire meal at home  Simmons preferred to do the driving on the excursions, but Arnold  would insist he was quite capable of it. One day he slammed into the rear of a bricklayer's car and turned it over. Immediately he began cussing his victim. “Get that car out of the way!” he demanded, “Get it out of there!” “But, General, it was your fault,” Simmons suggested  Don't tell me it was my faul  he cried, and forgetting the bricklayer, he began cussing Simmons. He never did admit his blame,  but Simm« ok the bricklayer’s name and Bee sent the man a check to  ns t  cover the damage  Such in