oing up the Hudson to visit Vassar, he suggested she stop at West Point and visit his son Bruce. She liked the idea, and after reaching Vassar in nearby Poughkeepsie, let Rruce know she was coming to the academy.  He had never met her. But as he stood in the lobby of the Thayer Hotel with a friend, waiting to be paged, a girl walked across the lobby who was so beautiful that he turned to his friend and said, “I don't know who that is, but that’s the girl I’m going to marry.” It was, of course, Barbara Douglas, and in the late fall of 1941, he still had her more than casually in mind.  That Sunday afternoon, Arnold did drive his Pontiac back to Washington, but fortunately for Simmons, Bee's mother, Annie Pool, had also shown up at West Point and decided to ride back with them Since there was no room for Simmons, Arnold arranged for him to fly back. Mrs. Pool, then in her late seventies, enjoyed speed so much that whenever she rode with her son-in-law, whose company she obviously enjoyed, she would cry out, “Throw it to her, Hap! Throw it to her!” while her daughter in the back seat would plead, “Mother! Keep your mouth shut!”  Hap Arnold didn't need any encouragement. He was determined to beat Simmons’s record. In his hurry, he went speeding through one town the wrong way on a one-way street, until he encountered a cat going the right way. It extracted the front fender of his Pontiac; fortunately, no one was hurt. He explained to Simmons later that the other driver had cut in front of him. But the other driver had not prevented him from making it to Washington in six hours.  On November 5, Arnold wrote a note to Donald Douglas in Santa Monica: “Confidentially, I may be able to get away for a trip to Los  Thomas M  reputation was riding on the unce1 fact so keenly aware of it that in deemphasizing the use of heavy instead on an unmanned projectik of the “bug” he had tried to pron Kettering of General Motors, the ¢ the creator of the modernized n model with a two-hundr