ers. In a bomber, there was usually a second pilot to take the controls if necessary."  A few months after Arnold’s meeting with Malin Craig in San Francisco, the general kept his promise to visit March Field. He flew south to watch a mass maneuver by the fighter and bomber groups under Arnold's command. He was so pleased, not only by the aerial display but also by the Southern California golf courses to which Arnold took him, that he made several more trips thereafter, the last one coming on a very auspicious occasion in 1935, Craig was then on his way to Washington to become the Army Chief of Staff, replacing Douglas MacArthur. By that time, Craig and Arnold were firm friends, all because Arnold, in sending relief supplies to Long Beach without authorization, had defied the Army regulations so dear to Craig.  ind aerial gunnery he found the ideal  One trip to the 1 its bed would be able.” The soil was ing out a nineteen- g titles and found tn Pacific Railroad he rest. Since it was to arrange for the eed in that project egal niceties before there immediately, acility Edwards Air  eld who would be like Spaatz, Eaker, ther to him, in and s, they would sit in out airplanes or air rnold, Spaatz, and better to use 30- or wier gun would be ammunition, would f the 50-caliber gun mt heightened, the cause of passionate ecn or twenty years ly deaf. could no longer be he chess game and two guns plus their peared to be settled. played for several gh the linkage [the the gun].” Without ce again. ngton office of Gen. 1 February 10, 1934, rse a few miles from  aatz, in Washington,  HAP  staging, he decided he needed a real bomb range and aerial gunnery H the Muroc Dry Lake area, One trip to the fourteen-by-seven-mile dry lake convinced him that its bed would be  “about the best and smoothest landing field imaginable.” The soil was  range. In the Mojave Desert, northeast of Palmdale, he found the id  location for such a range  fine clay, its surface hard and “smooth as glass.” Sta