s for close-order drill, target practice, swimming, wall-scaling, and so forth, from six to ten. After drill, they would do company paperwork until noon, then return to quarters for lunch and a siesta, which lasted until five, though it was sometimes cut short for the second lieutenants, who had to be reminded occasionally that they were in the Army.  After siesta came the traditional Army social ritual of paying courtesy calls, dressed up in white uniforms. When a new officer arrived on a post, he had to call on each of his colleagues, one after another, and leave his card. Within ten days, these officers had to return his call and leave their cards. The trick, of course, in which both the caller and the  Thomas M. Coffey # 30  one of the few who did not get seasick. He was already, however, beginning to develop his famous impatience. After two days at sea, he wrote in his diary: “Still on the briny deep. Can’t even get sick to vary the monotony.”* The north Pacific weather was cold as well as rough, but that didn't bother the young second lieutenants because they were wearing their heavy winter uniforms, having accepted the advice of some returning Philippine veterans who told them to wait and buy their summer outfits in Manila, where Chinese tailors made them very cheaply.’ Arnold welcomed this advice because, while he had millions of dollars in his charge, he was almost broke, This bit of irony arose from the fact that, before sailing, he had been assigned to assure the safe passage of several boxes of cash belonging to the Philippine govern- ment, These sentry-guarded funds, nearby and yet untouchable, height- ened his awareness of how little he had in his pocket. His San Francisco sojourn had left him so close to insolvency he would need the money saved during this month of enforced thrift aboard ship to pay for the uniforms when he got them  The combination of his lack and surfeit of funds prevented him from enjoying the ship’s one-and-a-half-day layover in H