zing escape  He stopped short when he  from what looked like certain death. But for Arnold it was something quite different; it was an attempt to control his shattered nerves. When Milling came in from his own flight, he found the party in full bloom. Champagne was “spread all over the table” and everybody seemed to be “trying to get happy.” But Arnold was not succeeding. He was in the throes of a crisis that overtakes most pilots at some point in their careers. He was suffering from a severe case of F-O.F.—Fear of Flying  He walked to Milling and said, “That's it. A man doesn’t face death twice.”  In one short afternoon, all of his enthusiasm for aviation had been wiped from his mind. He would be just as happy if he never saw another airplane.  The next day, in a report to his commanding officer, he wrot  At the present time my nervous system is in such a condition that I will not get in any machine.” The day after that, in another report, he added: You know as well as I do that for the past year and a half I have been flying in almost any kind of weather and at almost any time. That being the case it would take some awful strain to put me out of commission the way this has.” But there was no doubt in his mind that he was out of  commission. “I cannot even look at a machine in the air,” he admitted, “without feeling that some accident is going to happen to it.  Thomas M. Coffey 62  On the fifth, they tried their revolutionary experiment in conjunc- tion with actual artillery fire. By the time they finished, Arnold had faced a near-disaster so terrifying he decided to give up flying forever.  Though the day was dark and cold, his Wright C-model plane was running smoothly when he took off from the Fort Riley parade ground with Lt. A.L.P. Sands of the Field Artillery as an observer/photographer. ,000-acre base 140 miles west  Flying over the artillery range on the big of Kansas City, Arnold located the target he had been told to find and radioed its position to the ba