air power all over the world, the contention with the Navy and the British, the hectic trips, the enormous responsibilities —in short, the war, and perhaps, too, his growing difficulties with Bee, had finally caught up with him. In a few days he was released from Walter Reed, only to be transferred to the Biltmore Hotel in Coral Gables, Florida, which—at his behest, as it happened—had been con- verted into an Air Forces wartime convalescent hospital  Back home for a day or so before the flight to Florida, he called Dr. Martin, the strong-willed captain, and invited him to his quarters. He had developed so much respect for this young man who had dared speak up to him that he wanted to take him to Florida.  Martin tried to back off. He had never flown, he explained, and he suffered from a fear of flying  Though Arnold didn’t say so, he could understand such feelings. “Think nothing of it,” he said. “I'm going to transfer you to the Air Forces,”  That afternoon, Martin was an Air Forces captain on his way to Florida in a B- aboard. Simmons had been in the infirmary about to have his tonsils  , with Arnold, Arnold's son David, and Bruce Simmons  removed when Arnold called and told him to get up and get out of there. He was going to Florida. “They can take your tonsils out down there,  At the Coral Gables Biltmore, Arnold was installed in a tower suite  Arnold said. Bee Arnold chose not to go  from which he could look down on a private golf course, Biscayne Bay, and much of Miami, He could also see a pool in which bass were jumping, but despite his continuing pretense that he wasn't really sick, he took little interest in such things during the first few days after his arrival  For the purpose of assessing Arnold's condition as well as treating him, Secretary of War Stimson sent down his own physician, Col. Russell V. Lee, who had been a nationally known Palo Alto, California, heart specialist before his wartime enlistment in the Medical Corps. Lee put Arnold on a strict