n observer/photographer. ,000-acre base 140 miles west  Flying over the artillery range on the big of Kansas City, Arnold located the target he had been told to find and radioed its position to the battery awaiting his message. Then, as prearranged, he flew to the rear of the battery and turned toward it. The artillery men fired their salvo just as his plane came overhead so that he could observe the burst of the shell and inform them how close they had come to the target  Using Arnold’s coded radio information, the artillery guns were placing their shells directly on target after four volleys. The experiment  was a success. While not spectacular, it helped to prove something that  —that there actually was a  few people were willing to concede in 191 possible military use for airplanes  The air was rough but the machine was “handling beautifully” as Arnold flew back toward the parade ground. Then suddenly, without warning, it went into a flat spin (perhaps caught by one of the mini-whirlwinds so frequent on the Kansas plains) and turned a com- plete circle, the diameter of which, Arnold estimated, was not much greater than the plane’s width, It felt to him as if “some unseen force” had taken hold of the plane and twirled it. Before he had recovered from the flat spin, he found himself plummeting toward the earth from an altitude of 400 feet. As the ground kept rushing up at him, he glanced over his shoulder, thinking the propellor chain had broken, It hadn't. The controls were all intact. Lieutenant Sands, oblivious to their predicament, was trying to take pictures of a group of soldiers lined up at a pay window on the ground below  Arnold was totally unprepared to cope with his plane’s behavior. In 1912 it was generally supposed that Wright airplanes could not be brought out of a stall. Several pilots, some of whom Arnold knew, had died in the attempt. Though Orville Wright had, in fact, figured out how to do it, the news hadn't yet circulated. In desperation, Arno