thur's hands after a long, costly, and perhaps unneces- sary campaign. MacArthur told him Spaatz would be the wrong man to command the Strategic Air Force in the final drive against Japan. The implication was that the right man would be MacArthur, an implication Arnold found easy to overlook  In Manila, the destruction had been so complete that all the modern buildings were gone and only two good houses had been left standing. Arnold stayed with Kenney, Among the people who came to see Arnold was hi  MacArthur occupied one of them, George Kenney the other.  one-time chief of staff George Stratemeyer, who was now air command- er in the Far East. Like Stilwell and others, Stratemeyer was having trouble with Chiang Kai-shek and Claire Chennault. Arnold realized he might soon have to do something about Chennault. Though he was a formidable fighting man, remarkably successful in his operations against the Japanese, he sometimes seemed to be representing not the U.S. Army but Chiang Kai-shek. (On July 6, Chennault resigned after Arnold had placed him under Stratemeyer’s command.) ;  With Stratemeyer in Manila was his chief of staff, Gen. Charles Stone, who had been one of Arnold’s young fliers at March Field in 1933. On the veranda of Kenney’s house, Arnold approached Stone and said, “Chuck, we now have a very powerful weapon. Do you know about  Stone said, “I know very little about it but 1 knew we had it.” “Do you think we should drop it?” “No, sir.”  369 * HAP  Arnold looked him in the eye and said, “If Stalin could hear you say that, he'd hang you up by the balls.”  Did that mean Arnold favored or disfavored the use of the great new bomb? Stone couldn't tell  While Arnold was in the Philippines he drove out to Fort McKinley, where he had been stationed in the early days of his career, and tried to find the house he and Bee had occupied. All he could find was the concrete steps leading up to the porch  From Manila, he flew directly to Okinawa, where, after a welcome  b