e force of his wrath.  “Yes, sir,” the driver said, and drove away.  Fortunately, Arnold no longer had to do much driving: Air Corps he was entitled to a car and a ¢ hauffeur. But the first chauffeur assigned to him had turned out to be a secret tippler, and after several occasions when Arnold got the uncomfortable feeling that he was sitting behind a drunk driver, he contacted the motor pool and  as chief of  asked for a new one. On call there at the time was a young private from Norfolk, 6. This was  Virginia, a country boy who had been in the Army since 19% Bruce Simmons.'’ When he reported to Air Corps headquarters in the Munitions Building, he was subjected to an hour-long interview with Arnold's secretary , Miss Suzy Adkins, who tried to give him some inkling of how demanding her boss could be and in particular how quickly he liked to move. Finally she ushered him into Arnold’s private office.    Thomas M. Coffey 214  The general's first question was, “Do you drink?” “No, sir,” Simmons said nervously. He had never before seen a  general  Thomas M. Coffey 214  The general's first question was, “Do you drink?”  “No, sir,” Simmons said nervously. He had never before seen a general. You know,” Arnold said,  I'm supposed to have a sergeant as my driver, not a private.”  Simmons studied him a moment and said, “Well, sir, you can make me a sergeant.” t until the day Arnold  Thus began a relationship which would I died. He gradually developed a nagging affection for Simmons compa- rable to the feeling he already entertained for that secretary in his outer office, Miss Adkins, whom he had inherited from General Westover Adkins was a plump brunette about thirty years old, not beautiful but with a pleasant face that fooled some people into thinking she might be easy to get around. As they soon learned, her smile concealed a strong will, She was the one person in Arnold's office who showed no fear of the general. When she got angry at him, she would refuse to speak to him