rs, he would launch into stories about one great-uncle who barely escaped hanging as a horse thief, and another, a whisky taster for the Port of Philadelphia, who worked too diligently one day and killed himself  when he fell off a ladder that was propped against a vat. What bothered Betty most was his insistence that these stor’  Ss were true. Her visits to the whose dislike of Betty never subsided, would have been happier if she had made them even shorter.  Arnolds were not long, but Be  The visitors Bee enjoyed most at March Field were the movie stars whose help her husband solicited while he was stationed there. Keenly aware of the value of public relations, Arnold had decided that it wouldn't hurt the Air Corps to be associated in the public mind with some famous film celebrities. Because he had already met such enter- tainers as Will Rogers and Mary Pickford, and because he was now the prestigious commander of a large California air base situated less than a hundred miles from Hollywood, he had easy access to almost anyone in the film industry. When the March Field base theater was finally completed, Jean Harlow, Wallace Beery, and several other stars came to  149 * HAP  Riverside for the grand opening. Miss Harlow stayed at the Arnold home, which pleased Bee, except that she thought the beautiful blond 's white dr  actre was too tight. “And she’s not wearing a brassiere,”  Bee whispered in an aside to Hap. Quite naturally, she was even more pleased when he brought home handsome male stars. “Mc other loved the movie star bit,” her son Bruce said later. “She always fell for a good-looking guy.”*  Sometimes, however, such visits could lead to unexpected family complications. One day Hap brought home Ben Lyon, who had become an Air Corps reserve officer after starring in the famous air film Hell’s Angels. All three of the Arnolds’ sons plus several other boys, fore- warned of the celebrated star's arrival, were waiting on the porch when Arnold and Lyon arrived. A