ntry stations, perhaps something could be done about that.  Infantry stations! Arnold suddenly realized he couldn't name any  1ame such installations as Forts  Infantry stations. He could, of course, Wingate, Custer, Apache, Crook, and Riley, since they were Cavalry stations. Infantry! They constituted the bulk of the Army. Surely he could think of a few of their stations. Yet his Cavalry-laden mind refused to come forth with any. Where was it the secretary of war had gone? To the Philippines? Maybe if he could be sent there and get to talk to him, a transfer to the Cavalry would still be possible.  “I would like,” he blurted out, “to go to the Philippines,”  The adjutant general, who had clung steadfastly to his duty despite the implied pressure of a visit from two such powerful politicians, must have been pleased by this sudden invitation to send the obstreperous Mr. Arnold so far away. Showing what Arnold later described as remarkable forbearance, he said, “I think that can be arranged.” Then with a nod he quickly dismissed the young man before he had time to change his mind  31 # HAP  In vain he chased after one cart, then another. Those water  buffaloes were faster than he had imagined. Before he could even shout  for the police, they had disappeared, in several directions, with his  precious cargo. For much of the day he ran up and down Manila streets,  (i wide and narrow, searching desperately for them. Finally, frightened te and desolate, he made his way to the address where he had been told to * deliver the money. How would he explain his dereliction? Those terrible  stories about robbers had been right. He had been given sufficient Wim warning. How could he have let them, in spite of that warning, snatch | from him such a colossal amount of money? And then to make their  chia) Getaway on buffalo-drawn carts! There could be no explanation. On his byw first assignment as an Army officer, he had allowed an apparently divin! unarmed gang of nondescript thieves