groups, but Arnold’s dream of a massive air offensive against Germany  couldn't possibly materialize, at least until 1943.  When Admiral King announced in June that the Navy, not MacAr- thur, would stage and command the island-hopping offensive through the Solomons toward Japan, he had reminded Marshall that the Navy was accepting the Army's control of the European theater inasmuch as the European war was primarily a land war. T herefore the Army should accept the Navy's control of the Pacific theater inasmuch as the Pacific war would be primarily a sea war.” If the Army didn’t like that, he said, the Navy would launch its offe: King then prepared to do just that. But as the Guadalcanal invasion day approached, he realized he didn’t have enough aircraft, especially in  sive without the Army’s help. In effect,  light of the danger to his carriers if they were exposed to Japanese land-based planes. Carriers could operate against other carriers in the open sea but they were woefully vulnerable to land-based planes, most of which had greater range than carrier planes.  King, realizing his needs by late July, had begun to demand planes from the Air Forces to strengthen the Guadalcanal operation When the Marines invaded Guadalcanal on August 7, the Japanese, aware of its importance as an air base, counterattacked quickly, sank four U.S. ctuisers, and forced the American naval task force to retire, leaving the Ist Marine Division stranded on the beaches. After three days of going it alone, the Navy's operation, commanded by Adm. Robert Ghormley, was in deep trouble. The fighting was to drag on for months. But when Arnold was asked to send more planes to the South Pacific, he pointed out that 900 American planes were already in that area, plus another  Thomas M. Coffey 284  “Torch”—an invasion of North Africa in the autumn of 1942. On July  August 7, against Arnold’s advice, the Navy invaded Guadalcanal  2, Bolero was officially abandoned in favor of Torch. Then, on  Sudden