stown, Pennsylvania. About midnight he got a call there from Lindbergh, who had been besieged and jostled by an unprecedented mob of newsmen and photographers when he disem- barked. It was Lindbergh’s first trip to his native land since 1935, when he moved his family to Europe in the wake of the kidnapping and murder of his infant son. To America and to the wor Id he was one of the great folk heroes of all time, but he was also an exceptionally private man who didn’t appreciate the attention and adulation that followed him wherever he went. He wanted to see Arnold, he said, but where could they meet without attracting a crowd?  Where better, Arnold asked, than a place as well guarded as the  Thomas M. Coffey 198  superfluous, but many thought their future was limited, espec ially since it was becoming apparent that the foreseeable four-engine bomber would have a much longer range than the foreseeable fighter planes. Air Corps Board members like Anderson, Sorenson, and Snyder argued, however, that these developments would not eliminate the need for fighters, but that the range of fighters would have to be increased, because unless bombers were escorted by fighters on long missions into enemy territory, the bomber losses would be prohibitive  his proved to be a minority opinion. The bomber advocates tended to disagree with it because they were imbued with the doctrine that the bomber would always get through. And fighter advocates, of whom Arnold’s old friend “Miff” Harmon was a leader, took exception because they didn’t believe the range of fighter planes could be significantly lengthened without sacrificing combat performance. In- creased gas loads and decreased ammunition loads, for instance, would lengthen the range of fighters, but a shortage of ammunition would make them vulnerable to enemy fighters, and the extra gas would make them more flammable when hit. The fighter advocates at Maxwell Field argued, therefore, that it would be useless to send fighters all t