is years at March  Field indicates that he had overcome his earlier fears. Yet the strain of  153 4 HAP  flying, combined perhaps with his general intensity, his love of rich, sweet food, and his refusal ever to relax, brought on an episode which must have frightened him at the time, and to which, it can be said in retrospect, he should have paid closer attention.  On a flight later in 1933 back to California from the East, with two of his young fighter pilots flying on his wings, he stopped in Salt Lake City for refueling, The two young pilots, perhaps tired after the long formation flight west, wanted to lay over there until the next day Arnold, always in a hurry, and possibly eager to show these youngsters  that he wasn’t so old himself, decided they would fly on to March Field,  and since he was the boss, they did so, But at dinner on Arnold's first day at home, he seemed not to be hungry. His son Hank noticed that he just sat at the table, saying nothing and eating nothing.  Bee said to him, “Are you all right?”  “Yeah, I'm all right.”  But by that.time he was turning gray. All the color had left his usually florid face and his breathing was labored. Finally he laid down his knife and fork in apparent distress. Bee, possibly fearful that he was suffering a heart attack, sent Hank to get the base flight surgeon, who lived only two doors away, When the medical officer arrived, Arnold was stretched out in the living room, still in some distress but making little of his condition. Fliers, for fear of being grounded, don’t like to advertise their illnesses—especially illnesses which resemble heart attacks. If the medical officer believed he had suffered a heart attack, he didn't say so. Not long after that, however, Arnold began flying bombers more frequently than fighters. In a bomber, there was usually a second pilot to take the controls if necessary."  A few months after Arnold’s meeting with Malin Craig in San Francisco, the general kept his promise to visit Mar