r’s victims should be allowed to buy weapons, on a cash-and-carry basis at least. When the problem of selling planes to the belligerent Allies was eliminated in early November —with the French and British needing more planes than ever—Arnold’s problem of keeping a few for his Air Corps was exacerbated. If he was to succeed in his task of expanding the Air Corps, he might have to go to the mat against Morgenthau, and perhaps against the president himself.  He did, however, have an important new ally in George Marshall, who, by coincidence, had become chief of staff on the very day Hitler invaded Poland: Marshall, as deputy chief of staff under Craig, had been astonished by the attitude of his General Staff colleagues about air power, He had discovered something most airmen had known for years—that the Air Corps had almost no representation on the General Staff and that the officers on the staff had little interest in the air. “I found everyone on the Staff hostile to Air, and the young air officers were going to Congress and stirring up ever ything—and the [situation] was in a general muddle. They had something to complain about because they were not getting recognition.”  Marshall, while he was acting chief of staff, had already made one important move to correct this situation. On August 4, 1939, he had brought former G.H.Q. Air Force chief Frank Andrews to Washington from his “exile” in San Antonio, promoted him to brigadier general —thus restoring to him one of the two stars he had lost when he was sent  to Texas—and appointed him assistant chief of staff for operations and training. But the recall of Andrews had not been an easy move to make because the men who had relieved him of his G.H.Q. Air Force command, presumably because of his public campaign in favor of long-range bombers, were still in control of the Army. “For the first time I can remember,” Marshall later told his biographer, Forrest C. Pogue, “Woodring, [Louis] Johnson and General Craig all acted a