ere inside now peaceful Indian reservations or on the frontier, but it didn’t seem to make much difference. We rode. We thought about horses all the time. We knew the name of every Cavalry hero; and outside of drill, on our own time, we tried to emulate and beat every riding stunt on record. We jumped and mounted over two other horses to a third, rode in pyramids, schooled our horses at high jumping, and a hundred other things. And in between mounts we cussed and swaggered, and even occasionally chewed surieptitiously, as Cavalry troopers were supposed to do.”  As for the chewing, there was more than one time when Arnold  hur acat the dril rote The had the the: an  act  in a anc eve pip the dist visi rule hid wer  dec  mo he  onl int ple! whi ruk fre« shi tror bec dis:  ind  dur  Thomas M. Coffey 20  wished he hadn't. He had first decided to try it after he saw his Cavalry instructor put a wad of tobacco between tongue and cheek."* He could see that it was a manly thing to do. He'd have to learn to do it when he graduated and joined his Cavalry unit, so why wait? The taste was bitter but like other men he could get accustomed to it. And he did, to such an extent that during a track meet against the hated Naval Academy, he put a slug of tobacco in his mouth before getting on his mark for a half-mile race. Toward the end of the race, gasping for breath, he inadvertently swallowed the tobacco, some of which went down the wrong way. Collapsing on the ground, he went into a spasm and had to be removed to the infirmary, where he was treated for an apparent heart attack. He recovered quickly and was about to tell the medical officer what had actually happened when he decided he had better keep his mouth shut. A real cavalryman wouldn't swallow his tobacco.  On the athletic fields at West Point Arnold distinguished himself just about as much as he did in the classrooms. Even without a slug of tobacco in his mouth, he was not exceptionally fast. But his five-foot- eleven-inc