ad always been cordial to each other, but Arnold was poorly disposed toward Chaney at the moment because he wasn’t cooperating fully with Ira Eaker in the formation of the Eighth Air Force Bomber Command."* Chaney wanted Eaker in his headquarters and under his direct command, And since he was theater commander, his argument had force, but that was not the way Arnold wanted it and it wasn’t the way he intended to have it. Chaney was too conservative for him. He had decided that Spaatz and Eaker, not Chaney, would command the air offensive against Germany.  None of this came up during their breakfast, but Chaney did cast some doubts upon the efficiency of two American pursuit planes, the 8 and P-39. Arnold didn’t like to hear that, either. He would have  eioo Tibi ity oobi wba tH Ninn Miia Lidia vik  {abn  iit ‘acl stove hal  hy apc  vat it ‘abit wine ‘oiler vliniuall ‘abil ec ‘Ault donut ANC quam iyi ws quanti whorl Aunt eqn yi trait ‘lps ight  Se han wiht ih  lal  ”  Thomas M. Coffey 274  Thus confronted, Towers, with aplomb, said “Why, certainly.”  At the close of this meeting, Churchill and Arnold walked together for a half hour in the garden, after which Arnold noted in his diary: “I may be mistaken but I believe that we can sell our point.” Because Arnold had that ingenuous American habit of exposing his entire argument openly from the start, he seemed to feel the British were equally direct. In time he would come to know them better  He noticed a great change in London. “People are not the diffident, harried, listless ones I saw last year. They have pep and show an interest in life. The city is cleaned up. Bomb marks are rapidly disappearing.” He went to visit Eaker’s command at High Wycombe and found it “a fine place.” Eaker seemed ready to fly as soon as he got some airplanes, and his first airdromes were nearing completion  At an air ministry conference on the twenty-cighth, Arnold had more trouble with the U.S. Navy than with the British. His friend Towers,