, Lt. Benjamin Castle and Lt, Wiley Dawson, he moved into a large, two-story bachelor officers’ quarters occupied by no one but themselves.’ They hired a Chinese cook and Filipino houseboy, bought some bamboo furniture, scrounged some quartermaster beds, and settled down to a primitive existence. On a typical day they would arise at five a.m., eat breakfast, then go to their respective companies for close-order drill, target practice, swimming, wall-scaling, and so forth, from six to ten. After drill, they would do company paperwork until noon, then return to quarters for lunch and a siesta, which lasted until five, though it was sometimes cut short for the second lieutenants, who had to be reminded occasionally that they were in the Army.  After siesta came the traditional Army social ritual of paying courtesy calls, dressed up in white uniforms, When a new officer arrived ona post, he had to call on each of his colleagues, one after another, and leave his card. Within ten days, these officers had to return his call and leave their cards. The trick, of course, in which both the caller and the  rarters, it ugh, “his ry officer. the field fe at Fort > was the it dances, nds were mels and void their he wasn’t some and 1 as it was daughter dy to help would be atually he  ail under seized it. had none step away even have whan, his sutenants. sotentially ning it to There's a ” Arnold 1ether the him. > island of cy” (as the tangled nts. They id, survey xt hilltop  3 lean and nsciously, ed to him  Thomas M. Coffey * 32  callee conspired, was to visit other officers when they were out, since the card-leaving was sufficient in itself to fulfill the ritual obligation.  Though it was an easy life it had several drawbacks, the most depressing of which were the tedious sameness of the days and the lack of any function except constant readiness. The Army at that time was not encouraging new ideas or experiments The good soldier was not one who looked for new ways to do things. Hi