more and got to bed early, about 11:30, feeling fine.  He awoke at 9:00 a.m. on the fifteenth with a headache, a cough, and pains throughout his body. Since New York was then in the throes of a virulent influenza epidemic (which would eventually sweep the  country and kill almost a million people), his symptoms caused him some concern, but he be  n taking aspirin and as the day wore on, he gradually felt better. That night, the cough and the aches returned. The next day he felt “pretty bad,” and the following day, the seventeenth, he  felt rotten as he boarded the Olympia, For the entire seven-day crossing he was in bed with fever and chest pains. When the ship docked at Southampton the night of the twenty-fourth at ten, an ambulance was waiting in the drizzle to take him to a troop hospital at Hersey Castle, ten miles away. It was beginning to look as though fate had decided he should never get to the western front.  On November | he talked his way out of the hospital in spite of some lingering symptoms in his chest and went directly to London en route to Paris, There were rumors of peace when he arrived in France and he wondered if he could possibly reach the front before the fighting stopped—he wanted at least to be able to say he had been there. On the tenth, he arranged to fly over the lines, but the weather was so foul that all planes were grounded. In his diary he wrote: “It looks as if 1 will go down in history as a desk soldier.”  On November 11, a British colonel agreed to drive him to the front They headed east at 9:00 a.m. and passed through the ruins of Verdun to the Argonne Forest, where they encountered the 103rd U.S. Infantry. Hap Arnold was at the front at last, right in the midst of the fighting, with guns exploding all around him—but the guns were firing in celebration, rather than anger. The hour of the cease-fire, 11:00 a.m., had arrived. Arnold has just missed World War I  Thomas M. Coffey * 94  advantage he hadn't counted on—mobility. He was n