officers. But he was not and could not become a pilot. Arnold, unable to deny that this had always been so, insisted that times were changing because of new technology, and that henceforth, a nonflying officer would be able to go all the way to the top if he had the ability. Bruce was not convinced. It seemed to him that a career officer in the Air Force who couldn't fly would feel “like a eunuch  in a harem.” Finally Arnold looked across at Bruce and said plaintively, “God-  dammit, can’t I have at least one son in the Air Force?  It was the first time in Bruce's life that his father had ever pleaded with him for anything. They had never been close. Bruce had always felt his father was not interested in his choice of a career. From ¢ hildhood he remembered his father saying that Hank would go to West Point, whereas Bruce could go to school wherever he pleased. He had been convinced, even at that early age, that his father didn’t care about him. At the same time, he hadn’t exactly envied Hank, who suffered the first-born’s fate of seeing his freedom of choice foreclosed. Now, as  Bruce faced his father across the bottle of whiskey and all of these  382  loving to each other” during this period."* He never heard his mother raise her voice or show anger toward anyone. He found her as warm-hearted, loving, and protective of her husband as she had always been  Henry Arnold, Jr., has conceded that there may have been “a certain amount of strain” between his parents, but he also pointed out that, if so, it was understandable. “Mother was working [during the war] as much as 14-16 hours a day at her duties as head of the Air Force And to complicate matters, so much of my father’s work was classified, even the  Relief Society, frequently to the point of total exhaustion  trips that he took, that he could not discuss any of it with my mother, as he had always done throughout their life previous to the war.” As for any difficulties there might have been between them during the