sing him from time to time, would concede that much. Though he might defy them, he was able to make them admire him. Though he sometimes ignored their discipline, he knew how to maintain discipline among those he com- manded, Tough, impatient, and exacting with the men who worked under him, he nevertheless managed to command their respect and even, to an amazing degree, their affection. Almost puritanically strict, he could also be boyish, fun-loving, and engaging. Single-minded and unswerving in his aims, he could be flexible in achieving them. At all times practical, he cherished an imaginative vision of air power and air transportation that seemed, to most of his contemporaries, beyond the  realm of possibility. While he often ignored Army procedures and was considered an abysmal administrator, he was unequalled in his ability to  get things done, The contradictions within his commodious personality him uncomfortable, yet he was able to reconcile es within the Army  seemed often to make those contradictions and to exercise his unique abiliti establishment, which he so often criticized and defied  der than 1e job of 1 she did fled her : became sessive, a elf.) house in asylvania rness his ns in his patients, though, At five in rn to the into his or even  pleasure from the Arnolds’ wided no ¢ allowed hen their re for his . She had eserve a ate, Until her iron  yne farm le name), »mbers of sards” or were less wed their Dunker” nuch like tse of his her own  ‘ry grew  n the summer of 1893, when Henry Arnold was seven years old, Dr  Herbert A. Arnold, his father, sent him out to work, for room and board but no pay, on a farm near their home in Ardmore, Pennsylvania, a few miles west of Philadelphia. To Dr. Arnold it was reasonable and proper that a seven-year-old boy should be put to work, not only to keep him out of mischief but to instill in him a sense of responsibility. Dr. Arnold's own father, Thomas Arnold, a nailer by trade at the Hooven Nail Works in the Montgo