nts for their move from Washington, but on the relief problems that still engrossed her. She seemed unable t control her own moods. She might act quite normally one mit minute later explode emotionally. Like her husband, thougl degree, she too was a casualty of the war  burden fell on worked  At one of the parties they attended, a National Press Clul a correspondent asked Arnold what he intended to do in re “I'm going out to my ranch in the sit under an oak tree  ley of the Moon,” From there I'll look across the vz white-faced cattle. And if one of them even moves too fast, other way.”  Did this mean he was all through with air planes? “Yes!” } one dares to fly low over my ranch house, I'll grab a rifle or and shoot it down.”*  He and Bee set out for California in their fully loaded m Clipper on the first of March, but not with the intention immediately into their ranch. Their new house wasn't quite fi the road up to it was in the process of improvement. But th and inspect the progress before continuing on to San Franc Lois and Ernie had offered them the use of their apartment as they might need it.*  It was the summer of 1946 before the Arnolds were at into their ranch house in the Valley of the Moon. There was 1  alibi  und oe en pin toddler Srountecibt abel ikeg llamo iological kala Mid) oi hp yesh ingcinctnalentne 0  Seow redoing tease Led  velop bt dnd ihe ey xb na  Soldati hans i ln “Se val Snead Seale sro al ee allay ke,  diesen  iy boty ons He  {inane gab lds vos ld lad rege lah pt och pins ah asia vi ey eb  ig aie  wmhndbtabicgl geen  wtp ban  Joby fonaytlnp nabs crcl onmdtgr nent Vhegut hake Dna abl  wt Syd ehleidp ec  ‘Melsanhgitgraad ih  velba ob seney (ot Hu te om aelaaes vot bh dl jul edktla cg esl gkco teal  or an aia snd aktqnnfbinde  walang bya  mM Toyo kde cd a ih {obs ifamtitinindiny ‘stale mtg  lived dy vy ion  $81 HAP  would stop, and thereafter she would receive only a token monthly sum And the proceeds of his insurance policies wouldn't last v