P-51s and three Spitfires had been shot down, but not by the Germans. Quick-trigger Navy gunners had hit them. “Our own Navy,” Arnold commented in his diary, “[is] far more dangerous than the G.A.F.”  The trip to the beachhead was short and well organized. By 6:00 p-m. the same day, the generals and admirals were back in London, where, after a bath, Arnold found himself feeling fine. “A drink and I will feel no pain,” he noted. Since his heart attacks, his doctors had suggested he take a drink or two each day  From England, Marshall and Arnold traveled to Italy and the Mediterranean, inspecting all the fronts, before heading for home June 21. The trip was entirely without ill effect for Arnold, despite an uneasy moment when one of DeGaulle’s French pilots in a P-  9 almost  349 « HAP  collided with their C-54 as it was landing at Casablanca. By the time they reached Washington, Arnold’s third heart attack was so far behind him that he went back to work as if it hadn’t happened. But the incoming details of the first B  sufficient to bring on a fourth attack.  homeland were almost  raid on the Japanes  Led by Blondie Saunders, seventy-five Superforts had taken off from their Chinese bases in the late afternoon of June 18 for the 3,200-mile round trip to Yawata, on the island of Kyushu.” They intended to destroy the Imperial Iron and Steel Works, which produced, according to intelligence reports, twenty-four percent of Japan’s rolled steel. Because formation flying used too much fuel, Wolfe and unders, with Arnold’s concurrence, decided to make it a night mission, with the planes following each other and bombing individually.  One bomber crashed on takeoff and four others had to turn back because of mechanical problems. Saunders dropped his bombs at 11:38 p.m., Tokyo time, and having lit the target for those behind him, headed for home. But only forty-seven of those behind him were able to find Yawata. Of the sixty-eight planes that dropped bombs, twenty-one unloaded o