nry's middle name), was also a product of the Mennonites. Her parents were still members of the Church of the Brethren (sometimes known as “Dunkards” or “Dunkers” because they practiced baptism by immersion), but were less exacting in their beliefs than the Arnolds. They had even allowed their daughter to seek an education, making her one of the first “Dunker” girls ever to go to high school. Unlike her husband, but very much like her second son, whom she sometimes called “Sunny” because of his cheerful disposition and sometimes “Harley” in honor of her own family, she was fun-loving and prone to laughter. As young Henry grew  n the summer of 1893, when Henry Arnold was seven yea  Herbert A. Arnold, his father, sent him out to work, for board but no pay, on a farm near their home in Ardmore, Pen a few miles west of Philadelphia.‘ To Dr proper that a seven-year-old boy should be put to work, not or him out of mischief but to instill in him a sense of responsi Arnold’s own father, Thomas Arnold, a nailer by trade at th Nail Works in the Montgomery County seat of Norristown,” ha to work at that age, Though Thomas Arnold had disassociate from the Mennonite Church of the Brethren, which had family's religious affiliation for two centuries, he had not aban of the Mennonite tenets, one of which was that everyone shouh an early age, to work. He had, however, abandoned another te  Mennonites at that time—that six or seven years of educa  Arnold it was reaso  enough for anybody because no more than that was necessar aman a good farmer. Herbert, Thomas's son, attended the N public schools and was graduated from the high school there When he expressed a desire to study medicine, his father discourage him. Since it was customary at that time and place such study under the tutelage of an established physician, he ticed himself to Dr. Joseph K. Weaver of Norristown, then com studies at Jefferson Medical College, from which he was grac 1878. After practicing for a year in Evansburg