admired Arnold and was as entertained as he was sometimes shocked by Arnold’s unorthodox methods. Since their original misun- derstanding about the Long Beach earthquake relief, they had become fast friends. Secondly, Craig was sensitive enough to realize that the Air Corps was now almost bitterly divided into two camps. If the new chief was to come from the old chief’s faction, then his assistant should be one of those fly boys from the G.H.Q. Air Force, and Arnold was the logical man, It would be unfair to ask Andrews to give up command of the G.H.Q., as a major general, and take over what should be a brigadier general's job as assistant chief. Andrews might not like to lose Arne aid, with whom he got along very well, but he could hardly disapprove of Arnold’s appointment. If he did, someone might suggest that he take the  job himself  Thomas M. Coffey * 168  we became convinced—at least I certainly did—that long-range, heavy bombers must have not only increased fire power and mutual support, but also a fast, maneuverable fighter escort which could go with the bombers to their targets Part of this conviction came from a constant development, as airplane types diversified and became more and more refined, of a thought the Wright brothers had started to hammer into me in the days when such terms as “fighters” and “bombers” were unknown even to them: “Large airplanes built with the same shape and relative dimensions as small ones, will not have the same relative performance.”...1 should have preferred never to send any unescorted bombers over Germany.”*  Arnold seemed in these reminiscences to imply that it was the 1935 G.H.Q. Air Force exercises that convinced him long-range bombers would need fighter escorts all the way to their targets. Future events were to leave some doubt that he settled on this conviction as early as he indicated.  Arnold enjoyed his association with the G.H.Q. Air Force because, under Andrews's direction, it seemed to be doing something. It o