ations should be  Before leaving, he couldn't resist one last jab at the general  taught at the Command and General Staff School  On graduation day, all the Arnolds were up early, and all of them were happy. Hap’s mood had been improving each day as his time of departure from Leavenworth approached, and the children felt the same way. The family furniture was already on its way to their next post, the Fairfield Air Depot near Dayton, but there was still work to be done—last-minute packing, making an inventory of the government property in the house, and turning it in to the supply sergeant. Bee was engaged in such details when Hap left for the graduation ceremony at the Riding Hall.  Two hours later, Lt. Orval Cook, an Air Corps officer who was visiting Fort Leavenworth and had met the Arnolds socially, drove past the Riding Hall and noticed the Arnold automobile parked near the front entrance with the motor running.’? Bee Arnold was in the driver's seat surrounded by children, dogs, and suitcases. Cook was puzzled because he was aware that her husband was at that moment taking part in the ceremony and receiving his certificate inside the hall. Why wasn’t she proudly attending like all the other wives of graduates?  He pulled up beside the Arnold car and said to her, “Mrs, Arnold,  are you having troubl She shook her head. “No.” He was still puzzled. “Can I help you in any way?”  t's just that Hap told me to be out here with  “Not at all,” she said. “ all the children and the dogs in the car and have the engine running so he could get out of this goddamned place just as fast as possible,”  Thomas M. Coffey * 136  asking for his approval of the assignment, King replied that he didn't want Arnold, but if he did come he would be accepted. Then in a private  letter to Fechet, King wrote that if Arnold came to Leavenworth as a  student he would be “crucified.” If his purpose was to deter Arnold, King had chosen the wrong strategy. Arnold leaped at the chance to attend th