any similar stories about Flying Fortresses during the next four years, but this one was especially reassuring because it was the first such story  Despite Brett's encouraging report, Arnold was aware that his  Thomas M. Coffey 238  The memo seemed to suggest that he could more easily spare the lighter planes, but a conversation between Arnold in Washington and General Marshall in Memphis the next day, September 25  illustrates sharply that, even in late 1941, the Air Forces was still woefully short of more than heavy bombers.  Marshall was in Memphis observing the Army’s extensive summer war maneuvers. Arnold called him about a problem that had arisen in delivering dive bombers for the climax of the exercises, scheduled for November."*  Arnold began by reminding Marshall that there were only two dive bomber groups in the current maneuvers, one of which was supposed to  go to the Philippines in early December, making it unavailable in November  “How many will you have in November?” Marshall asked.  “We have just the two groups.’  Marshall didn’t seem to grasp the problem. “With one short, how many will be left?” he asked.  “We'll just have that one group in the maneuvers.”  “And at the present time you have how many?”  “Two,”  ‘ou have two of yours?”  “Two of ours, and they're not both equipped with dive bombers One's equipped with light bombers but they're both dive bomber groups.”  Later in the conversation, Marshall said, “Now let me see if I have got this straight. What you want to know is whether we should go ahead and send that dive bomber group to the Philippines.”  “That's right, And be short one in November.”  “How’s that?  “And be short one in November.”  “When does it sail?”  “The first of December.”  “It doesn’t sail until the first of December?”  “Yes sir.”  Marshall laughed. “Why'd you have to call me this afternoon?”  “Because I have to make the decision now,” Arnold explained “They'll have to be called away from maneuvers on September thirtieth if th