to Washington in six hours.  On November 5, Arnold wrote a note to Donald Douglas in Santa Monica: “Confidentially, I may be able to get away for a trip to Los  Thomas M. Coffey 240  reputation was riding on the uncertain prospects of the B-17. He was in fact so keenly aware of it that in the late fall of 1941 he considered deemphasizing the use of heavy bombers and placing his reliance instead on an unmanned projectile plane that was an improved version of the “bug” he had tried to promote during World War I. Charles F. Kettering of General Motors, the creator of the original “bug,” was also the creator of the modernized missile. He had successfully tested a model with a two-hundred-mile range (which could be lengthened) and had proven it was now possible to control it by radio. Arnold, disturbed by the casualties he would have if he sent huge armadas of heavy bombers over Germany, gave the bug serious consideration, But ulti- mately he had to abandon the project. “We finally came to the conclusion unanimously,” he explained, “that even with the most improved type of ‘bug,’ the best we could do from England would be to hit Paris or some of the other large cities in France, Belgium or Holland. We could not get at the real heart of our enemy—interior Germany itself.”"”  Instead of developing the bug, he asked for authority, and received it December 2, to go ahead with the plans for the superbomber, which eventually turned out to be the B-29.  One weekend late in 1941, Hap, Bee, and Dave went to West Point to see Bruce, who was now in his second year there. Hap himself flew up Friday afternoon because he couldn't spare the time to drive, but he had Simmons bring Bee and Dave in the grey-and-black family Pontiac  “Leave at three,” he said to Simmons, “and be there at nine.”  Simmons was incredulous. “General, that only gives me six hours.”  “I don’t give a goddamn,” Arnold said. “You be there at nine.  With fourteen-year-old David in the front seat and Bee in the back,