t, King wrote that if Arnold came to Leavenworth as a  student he would be “crucified.” If his purpose was to deter Arnold, King had chosen the wrong strategy. Arnold leaped at the chance to attend the Command and General Staff School  He did not find his year there an altogether pleasant or stimulating experience, however. General King, a hero in the World War, was a martinet who applied his discipline not only to his officer students but to their children as well. It was difficult for the kids to make a move without coming up against one of his regulations. There were rules about where families could or couldn't go, and when they could or couldn't go there. He even had a regulation that said children were to be kept quiet and off the streets after six o'clock every evening.  As for the curriculum he supervised, it would have been good preparation for the Civil War, and Arnold didn’t hesitate to say so. He came home to their half-duplex quarters one night, after a long, boring day in the classroom, and said to Bee, “Well, we fought the Battle of Gettysburg again today, and guess who won. Right. Meade did it again,  but think what Lee could have done with just one Wright airplane. Though he was appalled to find the school ignoring the possible uses of the airplane, he studied diligently and did well even in Cavalry prob- lems. He amazed some of the Cavalry officers by suffering through a long ride they didn’t think he could endure. But despite his diligence, he had his problems with King, just as the tough old general had predicted.  Arnold and the other Air Corps officers at the school wanted time to fly so they could at least earn their flight pay. King, who scarcely believed in flying, couldn't be expected to believe in flight pay, which he and his Cavalry colleagues were not eligible to earn. Yet he couldn’t actually prevent the pilots from flying, so he simply made it as difficult as possible. On one occasion, after an airman crashed a plane into the Missouri R