pened to be there. Then he carefully closed all the doors and turned to his visitors.  “Giles,” he said, “we're going to let you in on a very close-top-secret project  But first Giles had to raise his hand and take an oath that he would not divulge anything said in that room, or ever discuss anything about the project, except to people who were connected with it.  This was the first time in Giles's entire military career that he had been asked to take such an oath. After he was sworn, Marshall proceed- ed to explain to him the Manhattan project and the atomic bomb that was in the process of development. Back in Arnold’s office a few minutes later, Arnold said, “Now, ¢  and start a program of training crews to drop this bomb—if and when  s, | want you to take this thing from here  we make it and drop it.’  Because Giles would have to know something about the weapon if he was to decide whether an airplane could carry it, he was allowed to have lunct  with Dr, Vannevar Bush, who was involved in the project  356  n 1944 and early 1945, Hap Arnold was receiving frequent visits  from an Army officer the rest of his staff did not know. His name was Groves, Maj. Gen. Leslie R. Groves, The first time he came to visit, Arnold said to the new chief of his advisory council, Col. Fred Dean, “always let that fellow in. He's an old pal of mine.”  Thereafter, Dean would quickly usher Groves into Arnold's office, but he was never invited to stay and listen to their conversations. “You won't need to sit in,” Arnold would say, and Dean would discreetly retire, pleased that Arnold had this old friend with whom he could relax for a few minutes  Not unul August 6, 1945, did Dean find out what Groves and Arnold had been discussing.’ It wasn’t until the beginning of 1945 that Arnold's chief of staff, Lt. Gen, Barney Giles, was let in on the secret  One morning, Arnold called Giles into his office and said, “We're going to meet with General Marshall.”  When they entered Marshall's office, M