ed at College Park. After long hours of discussion as to how they should be trained, Arnold and Milling decided to start them from scratch. Taking clear photographs of both the Wright and Curtiss planes, they labeled every part of each, including the most obvious. The photograph of the Wright plane, still extant, ts amusing to  flew a small »stead, Long he Washing- s and equip- ‘ere weather actory flying arrived and me credit to were buried  t of commis-  aired, heavy ide a lake of il April, and more exper-  were often dilege Park.” des, at maxi- | be moving ‘ous for the 1 Beck, after sale, decided 1 into a tree. her of these held convic- nd if Beck's t. Frank M. In February ad plowed a y because he ' because the ly recovered I, but never  ved back to th, followed ine he broke (built by the cense to use t, an accom-  Thomas M. Coffey * 52  a modern viewer because it included nomenclature now so obvious one can hardly imagine that as recently as 1911 it had to be explained: ‘Propellor,” for instance; “Upper right wing,” “Upper left wing,” “Engine section,” “Radiator,” “Elevator,” and “Rudder.” Beginning with these photographs, Arnold and Milling developed, and then passed on  to their mechanics, the Army’s first system of aircraft nomenclature and maintenance  Meanwhile a former Army officer named Riley E. Scout arrived on the scene with an invention he called a “bomb-dropper.” It was the first bombsight, complete with a telescope to measure airspeed and a table to calculate corrections for wind direction and altitude, Scott worked his device by lying flat beside it on the lower wing and sighting through its telescope. Though Arnold wanted to help him test it, his weight at the  time—a trim 160 pounds—was too much for the plane when it was also  carrying Scott and his bombsight; it simply wouldn't get off the ground. Arnold agreed, though, that with the 125-pound Milling at the controls, the plane should at least be able to clear the field, so it was Milling who test