n each morning. He digested and answered sever al memoranda daily, attended meetings of the Joint Chiefs, consulted with Marshall, talked to an endless stream of visitors, wrote a dozen or more letters (usually with staff help), and discussed a bewildering variety of projects with members of his council and his staff.? The one thing he didn’t do was conduct formal staff meetings. He had sat through so many such meetings during his career he knew very well they were a waste of time. He preferred to work directly on each problem with the man he had assigned to solve it.  When one of his staff members brought him a proposal it had better be short and to the point. “He would read it while [you] were standing there talking to him,” Dean later recalled. He would be talking about some other subject as he read, but if the staff officer thought he was wandering from the subject and tried to bring him back to it by mentioning something in the brief, he would say, “You said that here.” Though it might not seem so, he had been reading while he was talking He had, Dean soon learned, “a tremendous fac ulty for being able to do more than one thing at a time.”  319  Thomas M. Coffey 318  several ball-bearing plants in Schweinfurt were badly damaged. But the B-17 losses were almost catastrophic, The German fighters, perhaps 500 in number, had shot down 60 American bombers, damaged another 50 so badly they would never fly again, and damaged another 100 so badly they would need extensive repairs. There was no doubt now that the  Fortresses were going to need fighter escort on missions into Germany  ——— CHIPTEN IS)  if mid-July 1943, Arnold flew to California for five days for the purpose of “putting the fear of God in the West Coast members of the aircraft industry.”' Production had dropped off slightly and he wanted everyone to know he wouldn't tolerate it. “I hope I needled some of (their) complacency and self-satisfaction out of them,” he said in a letter to Gene Beebe, who was now