apologize.  “J think this is important,” Marshall said to King, “because if you or r, what in the world will the  I begin fighting at the very start of the wa public have to say about us. We can’t afford to fight. So we ought to find a way to get along together.”  The best reply he could get from King was “We'll see if we can get along, and I think we can."  But King was an unbending man. Gen Dwight Eisenhower, at that time chief of the Army operations division, is reported to have referred  to him in a confidential part of his diary as “a mental bully.” On  Thomas M. Coffey  annoyed at this because he thought de Seversky was making spec when, as Republic's chief operating officer, he should be ma  airplanes. While he was busy setting his speed records in flight, Re  lic's output of P- Arnold did not keep his dissatisfaction to himself. As he expla  7s was lagging behind Arnold's expectations.  to his son Bruce, de Seversky had made a beautiful airplane; but thi Forces didn't need an airplane, it needed five thousand of them, an Seversky didn't seem able to turn them out in that kind of quant Before long, Arnold's feelings became known in the aircraft indu De Seversky, who happened to be in California when someone told what Arnold was saying, went to see Donald Douglas in Santa Mo He wanted to know why Arnold was cutting him out of the  program. “Well, Sasha, I guess you know why,” Douglas said. “He's peew you because he hasn't thought you were paying attention to business.” De Seversky did not deny that there might be something to “Do you want me to call him up,” Douglas suggested, “and ask what about it?” “Yes, call him  de Seversky said  Douglas made the call and Arnold said, “Tell the guy to come i he’s ready to go to work, we want him.”  De Seversky did go to see Arnold but they did not have a meetir minds. Arnold continued to believe de Seversky was too much perfectionist to adapt himself to the sort of mass production the required. He ended their conversation