y had been relatively fort) suffering only two casualties (Selfridge and Kelly), ¢ falling to their deaths in ever-increasing numbers. T! just two weeks after Wilbur Wright died of typhoid fe before Arnold’s crash into the sea, one of Wright's pilots and Arnold’s original instructor, Al Welsh, hac Park from Dayton to work on the very problem that Arnold's crash—the problem of low aircraft load car were to have any military significance, they would t carry guns, bombs, radios, cameras, and perhaps « hadn’t yet been invented. Welsh had several ideas he w he took off from the College Park field on the afternoc air was calm and he had with him as a passenger o newly trained pilots, Lt. Leighton W. Hazelhurst, Jr height of about two hundred feet, Welsh put the } apparently to gain airspeed before going into a lor maneuver often practiced in those days, although an wonder why—except in the case of certain acrobatic n for a quick burst of speed, the momentum gained in hardly provide enough energy to compensate for th and a dive from two hundred feet is always dangerous skillful pilots didn’t seem to know that in 1912 Wels the plane out of the dive before he reached the gre  because he was carrying too much weight, he pulled The frail craft simply couldn't take the strain. It crum killing both men instantly.  Then on September 18, another day when the wei of the school’s most skillful graduates, Lt. Lewis C. Ro air with Corp. Frank S. Scott as his passenger. The m flying exhibition for the benefit of the Army's acting ¢ Col. George P. Scriven, who was visiting College | progress of his young fledglings. Rockwell had comp ance and was letting down to land in front of the ha engine suddenly roared as if the throttle had been pt (an unlikely possibility under the circumstances) and to earth at maximum speed, killing both Rockwell a Arnold explain. It was beginning to look as if airplanes, like  only one of many accidents knew about t  of their own and were subject to similar s