dying the structure of the R.A.F,, and though he agreed with Mar shall and Arnold that this was no time to strive for a completely independent air force, he favored a reorganization that would give the corps more autonomy and much more cohesion, He went to Stimson and asked for authority to deyelop a plan. Stimson gave his blessing and Lovett went right to work.  ‘Arnold, released by Lovett from some of his Washington responsi- bilities, intensified his pressure on the training command to hasten the output of crews, and turned up the heat on the aircraft companies to speed up the production of planes  His pilot, Gene Beebe, later said of him, “His idea of a good time was to work all day, then go to Bolling Field {in south Washington}, fly all hight to Los Angeles (in a DC-3], arrive in the morning, visit about five aircraft plants, then go to someones house for dinner that night,”  F, W. Conant of Douglas Aircraft recalled that Arnold would come into the plant, gather together the engineers and designers, take note of  the fact that some plane they were making could fly perhaps three  hundred miles an hour, and then say, “I want four hundred miles an hour. Why in the hell can’t somebody give it to me  “You'd begin to wonder,” Conant said, “why the  hell you couldn't do  it—how you would do it, He was always a step ahead of everybody  that they would an auto industry iting the nation’s herwise. To keep Arnold sent to ime, Maj. Jimmy  king for the Shell ys connections. In to Arnold with a confirmed every- and described its y accurate."! With he Air Corps.  d, “but it will take  was forbidden by duty. By July 1940 ild’s lobbying, and eturn to uniform ne Corporation in eral Motors, which it very good. Since able in the United setition in the near edled, threatened, litle was the ideal sat Allison, he also 40, which resulted ather flying. There tle couldn’t do, but  of them, and some wuto-builders didn’t  » be quite accurate  nakers, he still had, operational groups e wa