ok an immediate liking to Mrs. Arnold. She considered her “a serene, radiant woman, with a broad mind, in a family of narrow minds.” Bee also felt that some of what her mother-in-law-to-be said to Hap seemed to rub off on him, though he remained thoughtless about the little niceties a woman might like  On the day before the wedding, the Pools received a surprise visit from the Arnolds. Dr. Arnold had heard a rumor that Mr. Pool intended to serve liquor at the reception after the ceremony. Was that true?  Yes indeed, said Sidney Pool. He was planning a champagne supper  fu  nce again Hap Arnold was in San Francisco on his way to the  Philippines, and once again he was almost broke. This ime he had with him a new bride, who was one of the reasons he was almost broke The wedding ring had cost him $51, life insurance, $67; and after his Panama honeymoon, and then two months with the Ninth Infantry at Fort Thomas, Kentucky, there was her railroad fare all the way across the country to California. In 1913, the Army did not pay for transpor- tation of wives. But Arnold didn’t care about any of that. He wasn't even bothered by the fact that he had now returned to the Infantry. He was happier than he had ever been in his life, and his bride was the reason for that, too.  He was so intoxicated by his love for her that he had only one regret—that he couldn't buy her all the wonderful things they saw together in the San Francisco shop windows. They were staying at the inexpensive Stewart Hotel on Geary Street, and each day when they went out, they would pass, around the corner on Powell, a flower shop that featured exquisite violets. Bee loved violets and he knew it. As a wealthy man’s daughter, she used to wear bunches of them back East. As a young lieutenant’s wife she would have to get along without them. Yet every time they passed that flower shop on Powell Street, he was tempted to stop  “Some day,” he would say to her, fingering the remaining money in his pocket, “I’m goi