odious house, Quarters #8, at Fort Myer, across the Potomac in Virginia, near the Pentagon Building, which was then under construction. For wartime security reasons, Marshall wanted the top Army commanders to live within the protection of a military reservation.! He himself lived just down the street from Arnold's new home. They often went to work together  Shortly after the Arnolds moved to Fort Myer, Lois came to visit  them. Unpredictably playful as ever, she answered the phone one  evening with the words, adie’s house. Girls of your choice.” It was Marshall. “I seem to have the wrong number,” he said. Later, with a  smile, he asked Arnold, “Are we running a house of prostitution on this  base Because Marshall looked stern and didn’t do a lot of smiling, some people thought he didn’t know how. But David Arnold, who got to know him well during the Fort Myer years, found him a very warm and thoughtful man. Bee considered him one of Hap’s closest friends, It has been noted that even President Roosevelt addressed him as “General Marshall.” When Marshall and Arnold were at work together, they addressed each other formally, as General Kuter has observed. But when they were alone together, or in social situations, they called each  other Hap and George  In addition to his strictly military duties, Arnold somehow found time for a lot of peripheral matters, even during the early months of the war. He corresponded with Irving Berlin about the possibility of Berlin's composing a new Air Forces anthem.? With Ira Eaker, he completed editing a book entitled Army Flyer, which they had written together to stimulate enlistments. (It was published in May 1942.)  From President Roosevelt on March 7 he rec eived a private, hand written “Dear Hap” letter that he could hardly ignore: “I am a bit con-  cerned because Elliott has a rather bad chronic case of haemoroids  267  Thomas M. Coffey # 266  in his work, so worried about the problems of the war, that he had room in his mind for n