nel, sometimes enlarging the group to five members, sometimes ¢ ontracting it to two or three, he maintained the advisory council for the next four years, and out of it  , most of whom achieved three  came a succession of bright young offic or four stars before they ended their careers.  All these men had one thing in common—they were quick and adaptable, They had to be in order to accustom themselves to Arnold's helter-skelter administrative methods. After the war began, he more than ever lacked the patience to restrict himself to the normal chain-of- command method of doing things. If he wanted something done, he wanted it done immediately. But his office was now a large organization with hundreds of officers and civil servants in a bewildering maze of branches and sections. As Kuter recalled, “Directives launched into this elaborate new machine might spend days and weeks gathering coordina- tions and approvals.”  Arnold never did get accustomed to that.'" “I toss a new idea to you  staff fellows and what happens?” he would say. “A long time later I get a  Thomas M. Coffey 254  of one amphibious division and the support of a small Navy escort force. Marshall listened carefully and asked two questions. “Where will the amphibious division come from?” And, “Does the Navy have available a small escort force?” They didn’t know. He thanked them and ended the meeting but asked Kuter to stay  When he and Kuter were alone, he described the presentation heatedly as “magazine type writing.” It passed the buck upward. It was in no sense a staff study. It presented a problem and told the chief to go solve it  “As the upcoming deputy chief of air staff,” Marshall concluded, “one of your duties will be to make sure that half-baked, exciting material of that sort never gets as high as General Arnold again.”  Arnold, in his own efforts to make the best use of his brightest young officers, formed a new advisory council, which began in mid- February with just two members, Norstad an