e  185 « HAP  wanted the factories enlarged to a capacity of 20,000 planes per year, because Hitler's potential enemies, especially France and England, would soon be desperately  ger to buy planes from the United States.  Arnold, suddenly alarmed at the prospect of having 10,000 planes and not enough fields to keep them or pilots to fly them, suggested immediate expansion of the Air Corps to 7,500 combat planes plus 2,500 training planes. In this plan the president concurred.  Arnold was elated at the end of this meeting. He and Colonel Burns virtually hustled General Craig into a car and drove him to Arnold's office for what Arnold called “a get-rich-quick course in the clements  necessary to make an air fore Though they had both been working on  Craig for some time, he had not been fully converted until that day. But the president had shaken him mightily and forced him to see the light “He [Craig] was a very apt pupil and from then on until his tour was completed,” Arnold later recalled, “fought for our program.”  On September 29, 1938, the day after that crucial White House meeting, Arnold was named chief of the Air Corps. Perhaps he had done himself some good with his performance before the president. But the steadfast support of General Craig, who had fought for his appoint- ment despite their long-standing private disagreement about air power, and the relatively new but powerful support of Harry Hopkins, had not hurt his cause.  Thomas M, Coffey 184  Secretary of the Navy Charles Edison, Secretary of the Treasury Henry neral Craig and his new deputy,  Morgenthau, and their assistants; G: George Marshall; Adm. Harold L, Stark, the Navy chief; Colonel Burns,  acting as a War Department aide; Arnold as acting chief of the Air Corps; and perhaps most important of all, Harry Hopkins, who had met with Arnold several additional times since their first exchange of ideas.  Arnold was one of the few people in the room not surprised by what the president said that day. H