use and use this one for guests, but that would have to wait until they had more money and building materials 6, the country was still feeling the pinch of  became easier to get. In I$ wartime scarcities, just as Arnold was feeling the pinch of retirement on 500, he did not  limited funds. Though the property had cost only $7, have, after forty-two years in the service, enough cash to pay for it in full. Both the land and the new house were under heavy mortgages. Aside from his two $10,000 insurance policies and a few hundred dollars in the bank, his only financial asset was his pension, about $12,000 a year. He and Bee could live on that, but not in the style to which he had become accustomed as a five-star general. His lack of funds was eloquent testimony to his honesty in handling billions of dollars worth of government contracts, but it would hardly facilitate the happy retirement he had been looking forward to.  He had never fully recovered from his last heart attack, but his medical problems were somewhat alleviated when Dr. Russell Lee began coming up to see him every two weeks, out of simple friendship. Lee had returned to civilian life and to his clinic at Palo Alto (he was also a Stanford Medical School professor), but his association with the Air Forces had made him such an aviation enthusiast he now owned a plane, a little Aercoupe. He would fly it to Sonoma and set it down in a field, where Arnold would be waiting to greet him and guide him with hand Is. It amused Lee to think of himself, an amateur pilot, with “a  sign five-star gene!  At the doctor's suggestion, Arnold began to increase his liquor allotment. He had been drinking two Old Fashioneds a day, and he continued to drink only two, but he began serving himself from a larger glass which naturally called for larger amounts. Lee’s visits also remind-  ed him to watch his diet, and gave him someone to whom he could talk ampened to some degree by  shagging me in to land in a pasture.  about his act