e feelings. But however she may have felt at  the time about his return to the air, she never threw it up to him later. “I  87 « HAP  felt when we went out there,” she said in later years, “that Hap wouldn't be a supply officer very long.”  But Arnold's return to the air was not just a simple matter of taking a twenty-minute flight as a passenger. His fear of flying was still strong. The difference was that now he had developed a determination to conquer it. Five days later he flew again as a passenger, and within the next month he went up seven more times, but always with someone else flying the airplane.  Finally, on November 26, he went up alone, for six minutes, which is about as long as it would take to circle the field and hurry right back in to land. But the next day he again flew alone, for eleven minutes; two days later, for sixteen minutes; and three days after that, on December 1, for nineteen minutes,  Thou  h he was now pushing back his fear, he hadn't yet banished it completely. What he would have to do, he decided, was to take some positive, aggressive action against it. One day (probably December 16, 1916, when he flew for forty minutes, though the ex  act date of conjecture), he took off on a flight that was like no other he had ever attempted. He was determined to put himself through every dangerous  S a matter  maneuver man is capable of in an airplane.’® He tried snap rolls, slow rolls, and loops. He stalled, he spinned, he flew upside down for as long as he could keep the wings balanced. He dove for the deck and buzzed the ground. He did everything his imagination could conceive to test the airplane’s endurance, and, more important, his own endurance, and he found to his enormous relief that he could take as much punishment as the plane. After he landed that day he was able, for the first time in four years, to look at an airplane without f going to die,” he decided. It was not up to him. But when his time did come, he would just as soon die fly