ed by Boeing Seattle and Bell-Atlanta if sixty or eighty is a maximum we can put over the Japanese mainland, a change in management is certainly in order, Nimitz, for instance, has every right to say, “Give me command of these heavy bombers and I will get three hundred over Japan at a time.” And I would be the one who would be bound to support him. MacArthur could very rightly say (with Kenney’s backing), “I could certainly get more airplanes over Japan than that were I using the 20th Air Force."  I know that you are going to be told that they must have X-number of these planes for training. I know that you will also be told that it is difficult to get them in the air from tt bases in the Pacific. And I know that there are one thousand other reasons for not getting two, three, or four hundred B-29s over Japan every other day. But all of these reasons must be pushed to one side with a grim determina’  - thousandth B-29 being produced at Wichita told of the Navy's fifteen hundred airplanes hitting  In late February, Arnold received a letter from Chiang Kai-shek that must have amused him, especially in light of his own low regard for Chiang and Joe Stilwell’s difficulties in getting Chiang’s army to fight the Japanese  The help and inspiration we have received from you in our hard times are beyond estimate. Fighting shoulder to shoulder, the Chinese and American airmen have developed ties of friendship and comradeship that are destined to last for generations to come. I assure you, my dear General Arnold, that I shall exhort the officers and men of the Chinese air force to redouble their efforts so that they may not fall short of the high standard of morale and heroism set by their American comrades-in-arms  I here also wish to thank you heartily for the plane which you have kindly made available for my personal use."  361 * HAP  By this time Arnold was back on his feet, playing golf and making jokes about his illness. In a February 22 letter to Lois he wrote, “Apparen