public relations, Arnold had decided that it wouldn't hurt the Air Corps to be associated in the public mind with some famous film celebrities, Because he had already met such enter- tainers as Will Rogers and Mary Pickford, and because he was now the prestigious commander of a large California air base situated less than a hundred miles from Hollywood, he had easy access to almost anyone in the film industry. When the March Field base theater was finally completed, Jean Harlow, Wallace Beery, and several other stars came to  Thomas M. Coffey * 148  Here was an encroachment Hap had to view seriously. He didn’t want a plane to crash because some mechanic had repaired its engine in compliance with his father’s instructions. Unfortunately, the argument he had with his father about this issue caused a wound that never led. Dr. Arnold, angry, depressed, and disappointed, got on a Greyhound bus and returned to Pennsylvania. A few months later,  completely he  on October 27, 1933, he died in Ardmore."*  Arnold's unpopular sister Betty also dropped in occasionally while they were at March Field, and her visits were scarcely more successful than those of her father because Hap found it impossible to take seriously the subjects dearest to her—Arnold family history and the concerns of the D.A.R. (Daughters of the American Revolution), of which she was a devoted member. She was skillful at finding ways to insert Revolutionary War references into a conversation about some-  thing else. Let someone name a town in Pennsylvania and she would name a battle there “where our brave boys put the Red Coats to flight.” At this point, Arnold would say something like “Yes, indeed. We had twelve thousand men and they had about four thousand.”  He also took an irreverent view of family history, much to her discomfort. Whenever she began talking about distinguished ancestors, he would launch into stories about one great-uncle who barely escaped hanging as a horse thief, and another, a whisky t