ng reports about plane deliveries from factories to Air Forces units.**  One reason, as it turned out, was his own helter-skelter method of gathering information. He was constantly on the phone with manufac- turers or Air Forces people in the field, trying to find out for himself what was happening. It was perhaps a good way of keeping informed about certain things, but it was a poor method of compiling statistics. His hit-and-miss figures seldom agreed with those of his materiel division And to complicate matters further, the two sets of figures weren't likely to agree even if they were both accurate because there were two ways to calculate aircraft deliveries.  Ordinarily a plane was not put on the “accepted” list until it had been delivered in flying condition, But quite often a manufacturer would collect on his parking lot a backlog of planes, complete except for some part, possibly even as important as the engine, which was to be made and supplied by a second company, In many instances, it was not  only fair but necessary to consider these planes “accepted” so the  265  HAP  Thomas M. Coffey * 264  the purpose of discussing the Bolero plan. Stimson, Knox, Stark, King, “Pa” Watson, Marshall, Hopkins, and Arnold attended. Roosevelt read the plan aloud and discussed it paragraph by paragraph. Then Hopkins said pointedly, aware as he was of Navy recalcitrance, “I want to be sure that everybody is in accord with this program. Admiral King, do you see  any reason this cannot be carried out?”  King said, “No, I do not  It appeared that, whatever the merits or demerits of the Bolero scheme, the Army and Air Forces had at least reaffirmed the doctrine of concentration of power against Germany, and had thus prevented diversion of strength to the Pacific. But King was not an easy man to overcome. In time they would hear more from him on the subject of diversion to his Pacific theater. They would also hear more from Douglas MacArthur about diversion to his Pacific theater.