as acting chief of Air Forces. His adroit Florida transaction came too late to save him. In March, Arnold sent him to Knollwood, North Carolina, to take over the Eastern Technical Training Command. At the same ume, Arnold’s old friend Maj. Gen Jake Fickel was relieved as commander of the Fourth Air Force in Cal- ifornia and put in charge of the Western Technical Training Command. Under the pressure of wartime needs, Arnold was finally developing the ruthlessness that Marshall demanded of him, and for which some of his old friends would never forgive him.  The immediate cause of Fickel’s replacement (by George Kenney) was an inordinately high accident rate among the P-38 fighters in his command. The twin-fuselage plane was beautiful and graceful in the sky, but it had a tendency to nose in if not flown properly, and many pilots were being killed. Under Kenney, Gen. Barney Giles took com- mand of operations. He called Arnold and asked him about putting dual controls in three or four P-  8s and starting a school at Muroc Dry Lake to give the young pilots some extra instruction.  Arnold wasn’t sure it was possible to put dual controls or an extra seat in a P-38. “You'd better take it up with Wright Field,” he told Giles.  “I have taken it up with Wright Field,” € iles said, “and they told me it couldn't be done. But I'm telling you now, I've already done it.”*°  hat was the way Arnold liked to hear people talk. With his blessing, Giles started the school at Muroc, where he made his pilots learn to fly the P-38 on one engine. The accident rate was cut by about two hundred percent, and Arnold filed the name of Barney Giles in the back of his  mind.  Arnold had a different kind of trouble with another fighter plane he was counting on—the cigar-shaped P-47 Thunderbolt, manufac- tured by Republic Aviation Corporation It was a plane developed by Alexander de Seversky, a distinguished aircraft designer and Republic's principal owner. De Seversky, a long-time air-power advocate