ecome the Joint Chiefs because Marshall needed him and Roosevelt accepted him.  The naval members, on the other hand, or at least Admiral King and his aides, never did wholeheartedly accept him. Since the naval air chief, Adm. John Towers, was not a member of the Joint Chiefs, they could see no reason why the Army air chief should be so honored. But Marshall was eager to have Arnold included for two obvious reasons. First, he was genuinely convinced that the Army air arm was now so important a part of the nation’s military system that it deserved representation; and second, without another general at his side, he could be out-voted consistently by the Navy. Though he believed Leahy to be a fair and honorable man, he was also aware of the pressure Leahy would feel from King and other Navy men on issues of contention between the Army and Navy.  Leahy assumed chairmanship of the Joint Chiefs at Marshall's behest. Already retired after a term as chief of naval operations, he had become governor of Puerto Rico in 1939, and after the fall of France, American ambassador to the Vichy French government Marshall sug-  gested that Roosevelt bring him home to head the Joint Chiefs because “T thought the Navy couldn't resist this, and from what I had learned, I was willing to trust Leahy to be a neutral chairman.”  Marshall knew he was destined to have trouble with Ernie King, who was replacing Adm. Harold Stark as chief of naval operations Everybody had trouble with King. One morning at about this time, when King came to Marshall's office for a talk, Marshall couldn't see him immediately because he was engaged in a delicate conversation with someone else. After waiting a few minutes, King left in high dudgeon When Marshall heard about it, he hurried to King’s office to explain and apologize.  “J think this is important,” Marshall said to King, “because if you or r, what in the world will the  I begin fighting at the very start of the wa public have to say about us. We can’t aff