e planning had already t that Arnold should lead the flight and phone calls and telegrams. As soon as A Salt Lake City, he sent Bee home and Dayton, where the flight was being org: her from there: “Everyone in Washing  assignment but to me it is only another  His enthusiasm may have been dan just made final crew selections, which mi home five pilots who had counted on gx  tions about the B-10s because they were  tested, “The new plane is an excellent on  be properly prepared and the installatio    Thomas M. Coffey 160  something went wrong and the bomber began to drop. But fortunately  anaced ta make a farced landing  Thomas M. Coffey 160  something went wrong and the bomber began to drop. But fortunately he was indeed a good pilot, and he managed to make a forced landing, with wheels up, on the beach of nearby Cook's Bay.  Watching the plane go down, Arnold looked sheepishly at Knerr, »” Knerr  said to Arnold, but, of course, all three of them hurried to the crash site  while Royce turned completely away from him. “You go bail i  The pilot was unhurt. The plane was a mess. It had scooped up tons of greasy sand and debris, It looked as if it would never fly again. And with the tide rising to inundate it, there was a danger that it might soon disappear altogether.  The three men scurried around until they found some empty oil drums to fasten under the wings as floats, and when the tide came in, they got a fishing boat to tow it to the Anchorage dock, where it was lifted out of the water with a winch and put on a Hatcar. The Anchorage Fire Department hosed it clean; then the expedition’s mechanics, including Arnold's crew chief, Sgt. Henry Puzenski, went to work on it. The fuselage was suffering from dents in the nose and belly and these were hammered back into shape. The engines were hopelessly grimy, but Knerr had been wise enough to send ahead two spare engines and two sets of spare instruments, which were quickly installed. And when the other nine planes were read