both jc as to earn a glowing commendation from his commanding off was often away from Bee during this time, but not for longs Whether he was with her or away from her, he worried more did about her condition  “Now sweetheart,” he wrote from Camp Stotsenburg or 30, “I want you to remember everything that I told you—not lean over too much, carry anything heavy, open sewing machi days later: “Remember, no hard work, lifting, excitement or w  of sleep, a lunch morning and afternoon.” And on November  wollen  jn laadcadg vse eli an bide iale rad ye ion by el aad Gouna AL gt anally ob  ped leck lanai indsnmoyelesh  refs Sa ee F ex ib dengeat hguoch el ny leit piace ine cir oy ea rich sofas blaine inulin aie hit hanged agin vinden it Wiel oa eae ef ed rama fd belie lodb oad vl tet eb cia {pun indulnl lydia Jab PtH dal tenes ia ein nah  wilt ig  Vide geeninle ‘boladannty von  Tm lipid ugh unk ue hotbed wenibabfinaa! tah {aqaarchiyulagayhblsfthoae alee btn yeilyy hk Shull eee tebe, plistammbdin Wink gb han indi nasa ible webs heb  Daf lemon taht  it aie  vodeuite eth  85  HAP  the most pivotal choice of his career. And it was, of course, a choice —despite the cablegram, he could haye refused to return to aviation if he had insisted. But while he had enjoyed his two tours of duty in the islands, he still disliked the Infantry. What were his prospects if he were to remain in it? A few tours of duty at various camps in the United States. Close-order drill, Barracks inspections. Hikes and bivouacs. Maybe a march through Mexico in search of Pancho Villa. Then another two in the islands, still as a first lieutenant.  yea  ow that he had started a family, he could use the extra money he would earn as a captain if he took Mitchell's offer. And he hadn't really lost his interest in airplanes —only in flying them. But would he have to fly? There were plenty of jobs for ground officers in the Aviation Section. And maybe it was time to rethink his fears about flying. The newer planes we