d FE  “Lousy.”  “T thought you your chest.”  While Arnold 4 rage to visit the fron foot of Monte Cassi open road, bringin Hank and Rosie O' followed the others this area, realized | territory. They were directly down at the read the stars on th  the shell landed tot  Thomas M. Coffey # 332  Ithas been decided that an American will ake over command of the Allied Air Force in the Mediterranean... Asa result of your long period of successful operations and the exceptional results of your  endeavors as Commander of the Air Force in England, you have th  been recommended for this position  Eaker's shock at this totally unexpected news was followed by fury. Having accepted Arnold's impatient insistence on more action during all the months when his bombers were being diverted elsewhere and his pleas for long-range fighters were going unanswered, he couldn't conceive of the Eighth Air Force being taken from him now that his B-17 fleet was beginning to expand and the P-51s were arriving to defend it On the nineteenth, he fired off a cable to Arnold that gave notice of his intention to fight for his job  tention command 8th Air ir nearly two years wasted.  Believe war interest best served by my  Force: otherwise experience this theater f If am to be allowed any personal preference, having started with the Eighth and seen it organized for major task in this theater it would be heart-breaking to leave just before climax. If my services satisfactory to seniors, request I be allowed to retain command 8th Air Force  He then sent similar cables to Eisenhower and Spaatz and inspired Gen. Jacob Devers, European theater commander at the time, to send one to Arnold, requesting that Eaker be retained in England. Arnold's answer to Devers, on December 20, was firm: “For retaining Eaker in  command of the 8h Air Force, all the reasons that you have given are  those that have been advanced as reasons why he should go down and be commander of the Allied Mediterranean Air Forces.” He followe