d inspired to do better work and do it faster. Doolittle was the ideal man for it and he did the best he could. While he was at Allison, he also conducted instrument-flying experiments with the P-40, which resulted t of training procedures for bad. weather flying. There were few things connected with air planes that Doolittle couldn't do, but teaching the auto-makers to build planes was one of them, and some never solved. Arnold’s warning that auto-builders didn't  in a whole new se  problems were ane-builders would eventually prove to be quite accurate,  make good pl  Despite Arnold’s endless prodding of the plane-makers, he still had, in the spring of 1941, an Ain Corps of only nine operational groups —fewer than five hundred planes in total. And he was still accusing  President Roosevelt of sending too many planes to England, On March  10 he found out that the president had “objected very strenuously” to a  Thomas M. Coffey 24  You never thought the things he asked you for were possible, but then you did them.”  ol. K. B. Wolfe, one of Arnold’s top production engineers, was often amazed at the way he played the manufacturers against the training commanders. “He would say to a manufacturer, ‘Damn it, you  te “ ere gf z i aid me you were going to have [so many] fighters this month. Now I’ve  got the [pilot  trained and where the hell are the fighters?’  Then he would get hold of a training commander and say, ‘Look 4  to have ne 4 » have that many airplanes." * He soon had people racing against each  you've got to have [so many] crews by [such a time] because we're goi  other to get the work done Because Boeing couldn't make enough B-17s to satisfy him, he forced Boeing to license Douglas and Lockheed to build them. T hen he made Douglas and Lockheed construct new plants in which to do th building. Because the labor supply on the Pacific Coast wasn't big enough at that time, he made all the large companies build additional plants in Texas or the Middle West, where l