oddamn who he works for,” he said. “You can send him in my plane.” By the end of the day, McKee, who had never flown a plane, was on his way to Africa to tell Tooey Spaatz w hat kind of an air defense he needed. (Before the end of his career, McKee became the first nonflying officer to win four-star rank.)  Arnold's celebrated impatience, possibly exacerbated by his heart condition, directed itself now against Spaatz in North Africa, and eventually against Eaker in England, He followed one hurry-up memo to Spaatz with another, which asked Spaatz not to be impatient with him for his impatience. “I have been impatient all my life, Arnold wrote (as if Spaatz didn’t know it), “and probably will be until the end of my days, keup and that’s that  He began soon to unload a lot of his impatience on the Eighth Air Force, which weather and lack of planes had limited to two raids over Germany in February. By the end of March, gradual attrition had so reduced its meager fleet that Eaker had to suspend all attacks against the German homeland lest his bomber force dwindle away. His B-17s hit  but that’s my ma  such safe targets as Rouen, on March 28; Rotterdam,on March 31; Paris, on April 4; and Antwerp, on April 5. Meanwhile, Eaker’s repeated pleas to Arnold for more bombers may have exasperated Arnold even though, or perhaps because, he thoroughly sympathized with them. Ina March 24 letter to Eaker, he said  I sincerely appreciate your problems. , .. I am also aware of the embarrassment which undoubtedly results in your conferences with Air Chief Marshal Portal on the buildup of your Air Force, However, lize, 1 am unable to definitely and finally commit figures or dates at this time  as you can well r  myself to any set  He hoped, he said, that Eaker would have nineteen heavy bomb groups by June 30 and thirty-seven groups by December 31. But he could make no promises  Eaker, taking a forlorn view of Arnold's letter, sent him a bitter  311 * HAP  essay at the end of the first we