rative that the United States prepare contingency plans to stop them. If Japan were to conquer all or even most of East Asia, American interests there would be seriously threatened.  In August 1941, Stimson, Marshall, Lovett, and Arnold all ap- proved the plan, and in September, President Roosevelt accepted it, incorporating its key features into his own calculations of what would be needed to defeat the Axis powers. The special strategic mission of the Army’s air arm was at last formally recognized. Arnold now had concrete authorization to build openly, without hindrance from Army ground generals, the kind of air force he had been trying to build for the last three years.  Still smarting at the British remarks about the B-17 in combat, he sent Gen. George Brett to London to find out if the plane was actually as inept and hopeless as they claimed. And to make sure the British didn’t outstrip the United States in the new field of jet propulsion, he put the Bell Aircraft Corporation to work on the prototype of a jet fighter plane, using as a basic model the specifications he had brought back from England.  In August, at Marshall's invitation, he attended the Argentia (Newfoundland) Conference between Roosevelt and Churchill, at which the Atlantic Charter was promulgated. The purpose of the conference was to serve notice on Hitler that America sympathized entirely with his enemies. The Adantic Charter was a declaration in favor of all the freedoms, national and personal, that Hitler was trying, with fearsome  success, to suppress. It declared that neither the United States nor Great  nas M. Coffey 232  were astonished to learn how he had ended the interview. One of them said, “My God! You don’t leave the King! Not ever! The King always leaves you!”  On his return to Washington, Arnold decided to assemble all the senior Air Corps officers at the Bolling Field Officers’ Club and tell them his impressions of the situation in England. But before d ving so he had two meetin