ca to utilize their Fortresses and Liberators in support of our sea communications during ‘Torch At present the United States are perservering with the idea of the daylight bombing of Germany . . . without escort. So far they had not gone beyond the limits of strong British fighter esec They will probably experience a heavy disaster as soon as they do. We must try to persuade them to divert these energies (a) to sea work, beginning with helping Torch, . . . and (b) to night work We should urge them to build Lancasters [the best of the British four-engine bombers] for us. We should urge the development of the Mustang with the right engines. It would be much better if they could be induced to build 70,000 aircraft of the right kind in 1943 than a hundred thousand of those they are now projecting.  In a “Most Secret” November 2 memorandum to Portal, Churchill  had written:  993,  Thomas M. Coffey * 2  few skeleton missions, was now reduced to virtual impotence, and whatever strength it had was devoted to keeping submarines away from the African landing forces. The United States had now been at war for one year, and so far nothing had happened in accordance with the original plan of exerting the major effort against the German homeland Arnold still believed in that plan, but all he could do was wait.  C= baleen _?) @W  fNe the year 1943 began, Hap Arnold was coming to the realization that his problems with the British were more complic ated than he had imagined, partly because the British themselves were more compli- cated than he imagined. He had watched in astonishment as Prime Minister Churchill, by diplomatic sleight of hand, turned the Bolero invasion of the continent into the Torch invasion of North Africa. And now the North African campaign was progressing so steadily that Roosevelt and Churchill had scheduled a two-power conference, to begin officially January 14, at the sunny French Moroccan port of Casablanca  When Arnold left Washington for this conference on