elebration of Arnold's successful demonstration and his amazing escape from what looked like certain death. But for Arnold it was something quite different; it was an attempt to control his shattered nerves. When Milling came in from his own flight, he found the party in full bloom. Champagne was “spread all over the table” and everybody seemed to be “trying to get happy.” But Arnold was not succeeding. He was in the throes of a crisis that overtakes most pilots at some point in their careers. He was suffering from a severe case of F.O.F.—Fear of Flying.  He walked to Milling and said, “That's it, A man doesn’t face death twice.”  In one short afternoon, all of his enthusiasm for aviation had been wiped from his mind. He would be just as happy if he never saw another airplane.  The next day, in a report to his commanding officer, he wrote  At the present time my nervous system is in such a ¢ ‘ondition that I will not get in any machine.” The day after that, in another report, he added: “You know as well as I do that for the past year and a half I have been flying in almost any kind of weather and at almost any time. That being the case it would take some awful strain to put me out of commission the way this has.” But there was no doubt in his mind that he was out of  commission. “I cannot even look at a machine in the air,” he admitted, “without feeling that some accident is going to happen to it.  On the fif tion with actua a near-disaste1  Though t running smoo with Lt. A.L.P. Flying over the of Kansas City radioed its p prearranged, | artillery men f could observe come to the ta  Using Ar placing their s was a success few people we possible milita  The air Arnold flew b warning, it w mini-whirlwin plete circle, tl greater than t had taken ho! from the flat s an altitude o/ glanced over hadn't. The cx predicament, at a pay wind  Arnold w 1912 it was 4 brought out died in the al how to do it, 1 what he thou elevator becat return a plane it has built up  another sta