r enlisted man from visiting the theater in which he was stationed. The purpose of the regulation was obvious. Since it would be impossible and insane to have all servicemen take their wives into the war zones, there  373 HAP  had to be a rule forbidding any of them to do so. Because Arnold was  now on duty in Europe, both Robert Lovett and Ira Eaker believed they  would be violating that regulation if they approved her trip.** They may also have feared that if they allowed the commanding general's wife to disregard the regulation, they would be flooded with travel requests from the wives of other generals. In any case, Eaker did not authorize the trip, and though Arnold, as he said to Portal in Potsdam, thought that “Eaker and Lovett are getting too cautious,” he did not counter mand Eaker's action  None of this improved Bee's disposition. When Arnold and his son Hank returned to Washington on July 30, Hank was alarmed at his mother's condition. “She wasn’t well at all—hysteria, screaming, throw- ing things. But Hank was impressed by his father’s kindness to her “My father was actually a saint with her. He wouldn't put up with that  from me.”  One day, after they had been back in Washington about a month, Arnold turned to his son and in his usual blunt manner said, “You know, your mother is sick.”  Bee's emotional episodes continued to bewilder her husband. He told Hank that after one of them he had given her a watch as a present, and she had thrown it back at him. If she had been a man, Hap Arnold could have coped with that. He would probably have thought no more of it than the incident during which he and Rosie O'Donnell had exchanged a paperweight at point-blank range But he still suffered from his lifelong inability to cope with women and their emotions  “I just don’t understand these things about women,” he said to Hank. “I guess I never will.”  Hank couldn't help feeling sorry for both of his parents. He knew his father loved his mother deeply—that was eviden