ht—you are going to stay in the college where you are and finish this year. | am not a quitter and will not have any child of mine a quitter, Hence get busy and get the most you can out of the courses which you have selected  Don't be a snob. The girls took you into their sorority and wanted you. Play the game. Otherwise you are going to have one hell of a tume  There is only one way to get educated for a position in the world and that is to stick to it and finish. You can't travel from one institution to another, change from one course to another. Some of these days you will be called upon to earn your own living, so while I am willing to foot the bills, you had better make the most of it.  Hoping that you will accept this in the spirit in which it is written, that of helping you out, | am, with Ic  Your father  It was one occasion when he did not indulge Lois. But neither did he change her. In an undated letter apparently written about ten days later, she said: “I am about to die for want of a mature male. I am so tired of playing Dumb Dora for these college men, but it's the only way to secure dates—wide-eyed innocence.” Later in the same letter, she asked, “Did you get any new West Pointers [at March Field]? ... I do miss the Army so.” These two tenuously connected thoughts might offer a clue to the workings of Lois's mind. She didn’t care for civilian college boys. She was interested in Army men. West Pointers. And fliers. Men like her father  It was not long before Lois alleviated her shortage of “mature” males. In letters to some of her father’s young officers she let them know that her sorority house was full of girls ea  ger to meet Air Corps fliers. Tucson suddenly became a popular stopover for cross-country flights by Arnold's bombers and fighters. But as a result, Lois had a problem to  explain when she came home from school the following summer, She  165 * HAP  had flunked one of her science courses, She would have to go back for summer school to make u