520 four-engine giants and Jimmy Doolittle’s 18 twin-engine B: bombs over Tokyo during that famous token mission three years earlier.  The next day, when he and Giles landed at Guam, they were met by Admiral Nimitz, Larry Kuter, and several of Arnold's old friends. But almost before he was through being welcomed, he became involved in contention between the Air Forces and the Navy. Because Nimitz was in command of the Central Pacific theater, the Navy controlled the Marianas, and the 20th Air Force was only a guest there, In the  5s, which had unloaded 15 tons of  eyes of lower-echelon Navy men, it was an uninvited guest. Arnold had planned to put Spaatz’s Strategic Air Command headquarters on Guam The Navy was telling his subordinates that only 20th Air Force headquarters could be there. Arnold found this intolerable, and he told his men to put Spaatz’s headquarters there anyway. The Navy had also  disapproved an Air Forces request to bring in 210,000 tons of bombs, on the grounds that there was a shortage of storage space. Arnold told Nimitz he wouldn't accept this because, in effect, it gave the Navy the power to tell the Air Forces “how many bombs we would be able to drop in a month.” Arnold had less trouble with Nimitz than his men had been  having with Nimitz’s men. After the Arnold-Nimitz meeting, the A  Forces and Navy were again waging uneasy peace against each other Also awaiting him in Guam was a cable from Fred Anderson in Washington announc ing that the new president wanted to meet with the Joint Chiefs June 18, to acquaint himself thoroughly with Army, Navy, and Air Forces plans for the final drive on Japan. Arnold, almost convinced now that the Air Forces could make Japan surrender without any more Navy help and without an invasion, immediately sent cables to  Thomas M. Coffe  on the subject, in which he pointed ou nation, would depend on the peacetir manufacturing industry; that a strong air transport system would be impor adapted to military use; an