who was replacing General Patrick as Air Service chief. When Arnold arrived in Texas with his observation planes, Fechet—a big, bluff, hearty man, friendly but tough and demanding—was angry because the bombers assigned to take part in the exercise hadn't yet appeared. They had stayed an extra day in Okalahoma City for no explainable reason, and by the time they reached Fort Sill, Oklahoma, a storm was rising with winds at gale force. Fechet appointed Arnold to get those bombers to San Antonio. Despite the wind, he did so, with the loss of no lives and only one plane (which ran into a hangar in Dallas while trying to turn around).  Fechet made no effort to conceal his pleasure at Arnold's accom- plishment. “I thought that I was through,” Arnold wrote to Bee from San Antonio on May 11, “but not so.” With Patrick retiring and Fechet taking charge in Washington, he felt he again had an opportunity to move ahead.  With Fechet came a new name for the Air Service. It was now the Army Air Corps. In June, Arnold was invited to Wright Field in Dayton for an Air Corps board hearing, and while there, he made a concession to his father’s religious and fraternal sensibilities. He joined the Dayton chapter of the Masons. But he was never a deeply religious man, and his Masonic affiliation could hardly be considered an important factor in his life or his career  From Dayton he returned to Fort Riley and, while waiting for some new development in his career, resumed writing his Bill Bruce stories for boys. It was fortunate that he did so because, while he earned a total of only $1,200 for the books, it proved sufficient to pay for mastoid surgery, which David Lee had to have in March 1928. Bee took the baby to Kansas City for this operation and on March 31, while she was gone,  Arnold said to Hank and Bruce, “You sit down and write to your  mother.” The results were succinct  135 * HAP  Dear Mother,  Thank you for the belt and the necktie. The trees are ge ting little leaves on them