ther officers when they were out, since the card-leaving was sufficient in itself to fulfill the ritual obligation.  Though it was an easy life it had several drawbacks, the most depressing of which were the tedious sameness of the days and the lack of any function except constant readiness. The Army at that time was not encouraging new ideas or experiments The good soldier was not one who looked for new ways to do things. His best chance to distinguish himself was to do things well the old way, It was frustrating, therefore, to restless young lieutenants like Arnold who had supposed that their lives as officers would be filled with innovations and adventures. Only by reminding each other of the rumors of impending Japanese attacks on the islands could they make their drills and maneuvers seem important They did, of course, have other distractions. Since there were no screens on the windows, great armadas of mosquitoes were able to fly through all the buildings, diving onto any morsel of human flesh they might find exposed; and red ants marched in massed formations, also in quest of human flesh, so that a man soon learned to place each leg of his bed in a can of kerosine. Then there were the cockroaches, almost big enough to fight the mice, and even more difficult to eliminate. And there was the humidity-spawned mold, which quickly rotted leather and fabrics unless they were aired in the sun every day—if there was any sun. In the spring, around the beginning of March, came the rainy season and sheets of water poured down all day, every day, for at least two months  Arnold found the social obligations of his station more difficult to bear than any of these physical inconveniences. He could quickly adapt himself to discomfort, but the courtesy calls were an embarrassment to him. The story of his Cavalry charge into the office of the adjutant general in Washington the previous summer had been leaked to some of the Army and Navy service journals," and the presumption of