z and Borinquen, en route to Miami.'* Awaiting him there was a letter from the new president, Harry Truman. “You have my entire confidence,” Truman wrote. It helped to counteract a newspaper clipping also awaiting him which said Truman was going to ask for his resignation.  After several days in Miami for a physical checkup (he could now climb steps and was doing without his daily medicine) he returned to Washington, where he found another letter that must have pleased and perhaps slightly amused him. It was from Henry Morgenthau, his prewar adversary, who now wrote: “I thank you and congratulate you on your great part in getting the machines and men and training and directing our glorious army of the air.”"*  There was also some good news about that “glorious army of the air.” His 20th Air Force now had 700 B-29s in the Pacific. The previous June, the 20th was able to manage only 68 sorties over  Japan. This June it was expecting to make 5,900. The previous June it had dropped 92 tons of bombs over Japan. This June it would be capable of dropping 59,000 tons.'’ The B-29 was finally doing the job Arnold had demanded of it. And the Pacific air operation was so big that he decided, with the approval of the Joint Chiefs, to send Tooey Spaatz  to command it.  The Air Transport Command was now very much on Arnold’  mind because, in becoming the largest airline the world had ever seen, it had made him realize the enormous role airlines would play in the postwar world. In 1944, the A.T.C had carried 1,200,000 passengers  and 400,000 tons of cargo all over the world. It now had 3,000 planes  operating on worldwide routes. Its success, under Hal George and C. R. Smith, had proven the practicality of airline operations on a massive scale. And the prospects of even larger, jet-propelled planes made Arnold aware that his long-held dreams of an age of flight were soon to become reality. How could the United States protect its national interests in the expanding airline industry,