. “I could see that R.A.I magnificent job. Their operations gave us something to shoot at.” But he was not sufficiently impressed to send heavy bombers to the R.A.F., or to abandon the American daylight precision-bombing plan.  Bomber Command was doing a  On May 30, in one last attempt to work on Arnold, Churchill invited him, together with Harris and Eaker, to the prime minister's official country estate, “Chequers.” It was perhaps more than coincidental that Harris was planning for that same night the biggest bombing raid ever staged by the R.A.F. or by any other air force—1047 planes, against Cologne. Arnold had already spent some time at dinner trying to sell his British hosts on daylight bombing when Harris received the anticipated news and announced that the R.A.F. had just completed its unprece- dented mission. Arnold later noted with a touch of chagrin, “Of all the moments in history when I might have tried to sell Mr. Churchill and his R.A.F. advisers on the future of American precision bombardment by daylight, I had picked the night when they were selling their own kind of bombardment to the world.”"*  Churchill said to Arnold that night, “Your program apparently will provide an aerial striking force equal to, or in some cases larger than, that provided and planned by us. Perhaps your program is too ambi- tious. You are trying to do within a few months what we have been unable to accomplish in two or more years.”  The next day he agreed that the Americans should keep the heavy bombers for themselves. But he didn’t explain to Arnold why he was so sure the American plan was too ambitious. In fact, he was quite sure there would be no major American air offensive against Germany in 1942 for the same reason there would be no invasion of the continent that year—because he intended to insist that North Africa be invaded first, and many of the American bombers assigned to the Eighth Air  Thomas M. Coffey 274  Thus confronted, Towers, with aplomb, said “Wh:  At the