ween them, which widened as the aircraft companies concentrated increasingly on foreign orders. In February 1939, the British purchasing mission had ordered 650 planes from North American and Lockheed for th  North American for $60 million. This business was enormously impor-  9 million. A few days later,  French ordered 615 planes from Douglas, Curtiss, Martin, and  tant in helping the companies begin an expansion that would eventually be al to the United States. And in light of the fact that the budget for  fiscal 1939 allowed the Air Corps to buy only $32 million worth of  planes, the foreign orders had not at first damaged the Air Corps. But  when Cor  gress authorized an expansion to 5,500 planes, the corps  found itself in serious competition with France and England for delivery of those planes. By the beginning of 1940, American aircraft companies had a backlog of $630 million in unfulfilled contracts, $400 million of  which was from foreign countries  The foreign countries, now at war, were so desperate for quick delivery they were willing to pay a bonus for it, But since the companies were producing at maximum capacity, a speedup in foreign deliveries could only come at the expense of Air Corps deliveries. In the Air Corps contracts with the companies, there was a provision for a penalty of up to fifteen percent for late deliveries. Therefore, if the French or British were willing to pay a bonus, they had to begin by reimbursing the companies for the penalties that late delivery to the Air Corps would entail. But for countries which desperately needed aircraft, an extra fifteen percent or more was an insignificant expense  Both Arnold and Morgenthau understood all of this, though Morgenthau knew much more about the extent of foreign “bonus”  payments since his Treasury coordinating committee had arranged the fore!  zn business, and he allowed no Air ( orps representatives on that committee. But Morgenthau was still not satisfied with the proportion of plane