hether the British could keep them from extending the bridgeheads.”  By this time, Arnold was again less than sanguine about England’s  chances of survival. Though the men he met seemed determined to fight to the end, a certain pessimism pervaded most conversations. Were the  British simply painting the bleakest picture in the hope of getting the  most help? That possibility occurred to Arnold but he discounted it. The  country seemed to him in desperate straits. On the debris-strewn streets  of bomb-battered London people moved to and fro with solemn faces  The one z me thing that gave Arnold some encouragement was the British  Air Defense, commanded by Air Marshal Sir Sholto Douglas. It seemed  231 HAP  to Arnold that the Fighter Command was really fighting, but that the Bomber Command under Peirse was pathetic. And he didn’t know what to think about British research and development. He was taken aback when Sir Henry Tizard, Britain’s science coordinator, told him that many of the airplanes and some of the engines the United States was  developing “might be thrown into the scrap heap.” Was that just sour  grapes? Not necessarily. In contrast to what America was building, Sir Henry offered Arnold the engineering plans for a plane currently being developed by the British—a fighter plane that didn’t even have a propellor. It was powered by something called jet propulsion Arnold decided he had better look into that  While Arnold was in London trying to deal with British problems as they came up, he was forcibly reminded that he still had some difficulties with the U.S. Navy. He met Rear Adm. Robert L. Ghormley, then the special U.S. naval observer in London, who was working on the formation of an Anglo-American military commission Arnold suggest-  ed to Ghormley that there should be an American air officer on the  commission. He pointed out to Ghormley that “wat today is an air war,” and that “the Air alone can bring Germany to its knees if anything can $ As Arnold sh