ci yyhuetet Pl abil Fr ul sin  sql ple wy hie otlttan yuyu qt Ne th  Ft  wt  itt  167 *  HAP  the admirals who were limiting acquisition of the new four-engine B-17 “Flying Fortress” bomber under construction by the Boeing Aircraft ‘Company. And he encouraged the development at the Air Corps Tactical School, Maxwell Field, Alabama, of the strategic and tactical theories that were destined to become Air Corps doctrine by the time These theories were based on the anticipated development of large, well-armed bombers, like the B-1 of miles within enemy  , which would be able to hit vital enemy targets located hundreds  borders. In 1935 and 1936, the Air Corps  almost had to bootleg such theories to its men because the Army ground forces, the Navy, and the majority of the political establish- ment were not ready to accept them, or even to have them taught The prevailing political doctrine of the 1930s was that the nation could conceivably be forced into a defensive war but would never long-range bombers. The Navy would keep any enemy from American shores, and if an enemy did manage to land, the Army would deal with him Though Hitler's threat to Europe was already becoming evident,  enter an offensive war. Hence there was no need for  no American politician, not even the very popular President Roose- velt, that that the United States might one day send a force across the Auantic to oppose  would dare suggest at time the possibility aggression.  Andrews, together with Arnold and his other subordinates, used the G.H.Q. Air Force, in their maneuvers, not only to demonstrate the mobility of air power, but to test, as best they could, the long-range theories being developed by the bright young instructors at Maxwell Field—men like Harold L. George, Muir Fairchild, Kenneth L. Walker, Claire L. Chennault, Robert Olds, Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., Donald Wilson, Laurence S$. Kuter and others—who had been influenced themselves by such European air strategists as Guilio Douhet of Franc