bill for Congress that would implement this plan—a bill calling for procurement of 22,600 airplanes of all kinds, with the men and supplies needed to keep them in the air—the Army General Staff was appalled. Pared to its minimum the estimated cost would be $639 million. Up to 1917, the General Staff had appropriated a total of only $900,000 for its air arm since the invention of the airplane. In June  ary of the }  avy Josephus Daniels, all  1917, two months after the nation went to war, Congress had passed a bill authorizing the Signal Corps to develop 16 airplane reconnaissance squadrons and 16 balloon companies (but no bombers or fighters) at a cost of $43 million: the General Staff had considered that an excessive expenditure just for aircraft. Faced with a proposal to spend another $639 million for planes, the General Staff was so stunned it refused to  take any action whatsoever  Thomas M. Coffey 90  the news came that the United States had declared war on Germany. He  hurried to Washington and shortly after arriving there learned he would nama. He didn’t mind that. He also learned he wouldn’t be going to France, and this he did mind. After those four years when he was afraid to fly, he was eager to prove, against the Germans, that his courage had returned. But alas for him, he had Because of the frenzied  not be returning to P:  turned up in the wrong place at the wrong time. activity that accompanied America’s entry into the war, the Signal Corps Aviation Section was desperate for qualified officers at headquarters in  Washington. On April 17 he was placed on temporary duty there, and He  on May 25, he was put in charge of the Information Divisior continued to ask for duty in France but nobody was listening. On April 17, the day his orders came through detailing him to Washington, he happened to be in Philadelphia to greet Bee and the children, who had just arrived from San Diego. She was feeling somewhat better now—much better when she learned that her husb