tleman Mr. Pool could not abide.  Bee Pool’s entry into Hap Arnold's life was a blessing to him in many respects, not the least of which was that it helped pull him out of the doldrums into which his retirement from flying had thrown him. Still unhappy as a desk officer in the Air Service, he now resolved to do something about it. The depth of his unhappiness can be measured by what he did; he applied for a return to the Infantry and reassignment to as he could get. On  the Philippines, about as far away from airplanes July 14, 1913, his request for transfer “to a regiment serving in the Philippine Department” was tur ned down because there was no vacancy at the moment.® The rejection suggested, however, that his plea might be reconsidered if a vacancy did arise. Meanwhile, the Air Service assigned him to attend hearings at Hammondsport, New York (the birthplace of Glenn Curtiss), on the question of whether an airplane invented by Samuel Pierpont Langley of the Smithsonian Institution in 1903, at government expense, had actually gotten into the air. (The consensus was that it had failed and that the Wright brothers were the first ever to fly; in 1914, however, the Langley plane, with a larger engine, would manage to take off.) Since the Pool family summer home on Lake Ontario was near Hammondsport, Arnold’s assignment to this hearing was so convenient for him it may not have come about by accident. Though he never liked administrative work, he had learned  Thomas M. Coffey * 70  feelings, that his abrupt proposal flabbergasted her. It seemed to her it “came out of a clear sky.” He still hadn't made his first attempt to kiss her. And he had not once told her he loved her. Yet she sensed that he truly did  As soon as she got hold of her own feelings, she looked up at him (she was only five feet tall) and demurely said, “I think that would be a very good idea if you can take me with my hay fever.”  Thereupon he solemnly took off his West Point class ring and slipped it