rtunately for Arnold, the commanding officer's home was much more substantial. A several-times-remodeled two-story farm- house, it had glassed-in porches on both floors, three large bedrooms, a high-ceilinged living room, and a big, country-style kitchen, where Maggie held sway. In all directions there was a feeling of space, with idyllic rural landscapes to contemplate. The Arnold family was soon quite happy there, and the house was usually full of people, many of them Arnold’s old friends in transit—Spaatz, Eaker, Jake Fickel, and Bert Dargue. Even General Fechet himself stayed with them when he visited Dayton. Orville Wright occasionally came for Sunday dinner, just as Arnold used to go to the Wright home for Sunday dinner when the two brothers were teaching him to fly. Hank and Bruce liked the quiet, dignified old man but they were slightly ill at ease about his white mustache. It made him look too much like stern old Grandad Arnold  They were aware of his historic significance, and they listened silently  ¢ CHAPTER 9 E>)  he Fairfield Air Depot, which later became Patterson Field, located  fifteen miles from Dayton, was not yet a large facility when Arnold became its commander in July 1929. Its main function was the repair and overhaul of aircraft engines and other instruments, an indis- pensable activity but one that did not fascinate Arnold when he arrived there. Like most officers, he would have preferred to command an operational unit, yet he was not in a mood to complain. He had at least been brought back from exile. He might have a future in the Air Corps after all. General Fechet seemed to like him, and he now had two close friends, Spaatz and Eaker, in Fechet’s office  Dayton also brought mixed memories to his mind, because it wa  here that he had learned to fly the Wright airplanes that had almost killed him in 1912, With Hank and Bruce at his heels, he went one day to visit the old Wright flying field and hangar at Simms Station, the scene of his firs