ders, which they didn’t identify. They also said he would have to stay in the hospital for a while under observation. He accepted three of these four. For two years he ate no meat, For many years he Virtually gave up drinking, despite the temptations of the Prohibition era. And he took his white powders faithfully. But as for sitting in the hospital under observation, that wasn't Hap’s style. After a few days he simply put on his uniform and walked out. Though the treatment and the rest were helpful, they did not eliminate his ulcers. When he resumed flying, his stomach was soon bothering him again. And a year later, in the summer of 1921, he was back in the hospital for a short stay, which he terminated because Bee was about to have her fourth child. It  was a boy and they called him John, the name of Hap’s great-great-  great-grandfather who came to America from Europe in 1740. Because of Bee's pregnancy that spring, Hap had declined Billy Mitchell's offer to attend the Army War College, an important step forward for young officers. Perhaps he'd have another chance later Meanwhile, he was getting along well enough in San Francisco, except for his ulcers, His new son, John, was a happy, healthy, beautiful baby who seldom cried. John had very white skin like his father, rosy cheeks, blue eyes, and curly blond hair. “But since he couldn't talk or run or play, he was just an oddity to me,” his older brother Billy Bruce later recalled, “I certainly didn’t expect him. One day he was just there, and  accepted by everyone as a little brother.”  Thomas M. Coffey 106  Arnold’s home life throughout this period was quite serene. The California climate relieved Bee's recurring hay fever and she was generally in good health. Their three older children, Lois, Hank, and Billy Bruce, were full of life. Hap used to sit on the porch of their Presidio quarters in the evening and watch them play. They liked to show off in front of him, putting tin cans on their heads and shouting  “Ha