so busy, the admiral said, he hadn't been able to leave his headquarters for about a month,  Marshall or no Marshall, Arnold wasn't going to let such an opportunity pass. Maybe that was the cause of some of Ghormley’s  troubles, he suggested. No man could sit continuously in a small office,  fighting a war, “without suffering mentally, physically and nervously.”  Ghormley’s immediate concern was logistics. He had eighty ships in the harbor at New Caledonia that couldn't be unloaded. And Guadalca- nal was short of gasoline, but it was difficult to get his ships into the harbor there past the Japanese sea and air pickets.  The image of eighty ships loaded with supplies standing idle in the harbor when “the planners of Torch were going nearly crazy in their search for ships” staggered Arnold. Why couldn't the ships be unload- ed? One of Ghormley’s aides said it was because they didn’t know what was on them, so they'd have to be sent to New Zealand, unloaded, then reloaded with new manifests  Before Arnold had quite digested this, McCain informed him that the Navy had to have B-17s, and a lot of them, for long-range patrol The Navy's PBY flying boats simply wouldn't do. The Navy also needed Army fighters to stop the Japanese bombers that were sinking American  Thomas M. Coffey * 286  280 en route, while the Japanese, according to best intelligence esti- mates, had only 535 planes there. Furthermore, Arnold insisted, there weren't enough air fields to accommodate any more planes.  He considered the Navy's adventure on Guadalcanal a local action that got in the way of the overall war plan—a plan to which he still clung even if Marshall, King, Churchill, and Roosevelt had abandoned it. er will not win  “Though everyone agrees that success in the Pacific th the war,” he said in an August 21 memo to Marshall, “we are planning to concentrate more airplanes there.” The war could be won, he declared, only by attacking German industry “relentlessly from now on sd  King was not i