e broke his ankle and had to return to the Soldiers’ Home. The ranch would need a lot of work, but that didn't bother Arnold. It would give him something to do during his own  retirement.  Arnold's one continuing worry about the progress of the war was 9, in which he had invested so much of the  the performance of the B- Its first few missions from China had been so  taxpayers’ money. a great engineer but  unimpressive that he had relieved General Wolfe, without combat experience, and replaced him with Maj. C LeMay. Though he scarcely knew LeMay, he was well acquainted with the man's combat record, his fierce determination, and his resourceful- ness. In two years with the Eighth Air Force, he had risen quickly from group to division commander. He believed if he was tough on his men,  the enemy and thereby increase the likelihood  they would be tough on of their own survival. If he couldn't get the B-29s moving, nobody could.  When LeMay reached India in September, Blondie Saunders, who d to return to the States to form a new B-29 wing, him two more weeks and help him get is life. He took off  xen, Curtis  was schedule yolunteered to stay with acquainted, Saunders's helpfulness almost cost him hi in a B-25 the night of September 18 on a routine flight from an Indian  base and crashed into the jungle, unnoticed, three or four miles from  the end of the runway. Late the next day, when LeMay and an aide found the wreckage of his plane, Saunders was pinned beneath one of the engines with a shattered leg and several other broken bones, But he    355 * HAP  of the Air Forces’ overall war plan (AWPD-1), had taken charge, on August 28, of the 2Ist Bomber Command, which was then at its headquarters in Colorado Springs.** It consisted of one B-29 wing  Thomas M. Coffey * 354  was not about to die. The first thing he did, as LeMay recalled, was to ‘give us hell for taking so long to get there.” Saunders survived, after months of surgery, but his combat career was at an end, and