now peaceful Indian reservations or on the frontier, but it didn’t seem to make much difference. We rode. We thought about horses all the time. We knew the name of every Cavalry hero; and outside of drill,  on our own time, we tried to emulate and beat every riding stunt on record. We jumped and mounted over two other horses to a third, rode in pyramids, schooled our horses at high jumping, and a hundred other things. And in between mounts we cussed and swaggered, and even occasionally chewed surteptitiously, as Cavalry troopers were supposed to do.”  As for the chewing, there was more than one time when Arnold  Th  mas M. Coffey 18  hundred at that time, broke camp, returned to barracks, and began the  academic year, preparing for classroom recital the next day. By this ime, the plebes, their feet toughened and all their excess weight lost on the drill field, were expected to know the black book of regulations by rote—they could earn demerits for even the slightest lapse of memory They had better also know the guard manual, because henceforth they had to take their turns at twenty-four-hour guard duty, And on Sunday, their day of rest, they had to report for compulsory chapel, which, if they were Protestants, like Henry Arnold, meant they had to sit through an Episcopal service no matter what other denomination they might actually profess.  Though the Sunday chapel rule may have seemed rigid (especially in a secular army), it was counterbalanced in 1903 by the relaxation of another equally strict regulation—the ban on the use of tobacco. One evening at retreat the cadets received an order from the adjutant saying pipes and cigars (but no cigarettes) would thenceforth be permitted in the dormitories during release from quarters. As soon as they were dismissed and broke ranks, they let loose a rousing cheer. And anyone visiting their dormitories that night would quickly understand why the tule had been relaxed. Most of them already had pipes and tobacco hidden in the