rations did not abate simply because he had changed commanders. Norstad had _ barely returned to Washington when, on January 14, Arnold wrote him an anxious and impatient memorandum;  I am still worried—we have built up ideas in the Army, the Navy, and among civilians of what we can do with our B-29s. We had all    Thomas M. Coffey 358  ized that in order to do considerable damage, large numbers of  B-29s would have to deliver their loads of bombs against Japan  Thomas M. Coffey * 358  realized that in order to do considerable damage, large numbers of B-29s would have to deliver their loads of bombs against Japan continuously and consistently, and yet in spite of the above, really and truly, our average daily delivery rate against Japan is very, very  small Unless something drastic is done to change this condition soon, it will not be long before the B-29 is just another tactical airplane. These airplanes are quite expensive and carry with  them a crew of 12 men, and yet our results are far from what we  expected and what everyone else expects.  Three days after he wrote this memo, Arnold suffered his fourth serious coronary in less than two years. Though it is impossible to say whether there was any connection between this heart attack and his B-29 problems, it is apparent that he felt intensely and perhaps beyond reason his obligation to deliver on his B-29 promises.  When this attack hit him, Bee was in California, planning to attend a Los Angeles meeting of the National Association of Air Force Women. Arnold was planning a quiet dinner at their Fort Myer quarters with Harry Hopkins, and in Bee's absence, had asked Mary Streett to act as his hostess. But before Bruce Simmons left to get Mrs. Streett, Arnold had felt a sudden, sharp pain, so severe he could just barely manage to get over to the bed and lie down. When Simmons picked up Mrs, Streett,  he announced that the general was sick again. She arrived to find him  still in bed. While he seemed comfortable, sh