ones of American Pacific defense, the Zero already had the better of the P-40. Of course, the Zeros had been airborne during the battles while most of the P-40s were on the ground—presumably the P-40 would do better when flown into battle. But after the Japanese attacks, were there enough of them left in the Pacific to make a showing? And even if he managed to scrounge replacements for those that had been destroyed, would the ground force commanders out there know how to use them?  247 HAP  Arnold’s first reaction to this desperate situation was to increase his work load and the work of everyone around him. In his office the day began at 8:00 a.m. now—except for Arnold, who usually arrived at seven—and ended about 8:00 p.m. Everyone on the staff had a red emergency telephone at home so he could be reached at night, and there were no more free Saturdays or Sundays; Arnold decreed a seven-day week for the duration, He wanted to make sure everyone around him knew there was a war in progress, and everyone soon did. Whenever a member of his staff asked to be sent out for combat duty, someone was likely to accuse him of wanting a rest  Arnold also took immediate steps to strengthen his staff, which seneral Marshall sometimes criticized as too old and lacking in initiative. On December 12, Arnold called Jimmy Doolittle, who at that time was still in Detroit, trying to hasten the auto industry into aircraft produc-  tion,  “How quickly can you be here? Arnold asked. “I want you on my  immediate staff.”  “Will tomorrow be all right?” Doolittle asked,”  When Doolittle arrived in Washington he learned that he was to be the staff troubleshooter, and his first problems needed immediate solutions. In the opening days of combat, ac cording to the reports, the bombs in some of the planes refused to drop, machine guns refused to fire, and a lot of other things simply didn’t work. Doolittle’s assignment was to make those things work, and quickly. T hough he didn't solve all the probl