imes before he earned his wings as an aircraft pilot. He was well liked and highly respected as  an administrator but not considered a very  20d pilot,” 1938, while flying into Lockheed’s Burbank, California, airfield, he made too low an approach and crastied at the end  On September 2  of the runway. The plane burst into flames, killing both Westover and his mechanic  Thomas M. Coffey 182  most important men in town. On September 12, Hopkins and Roosevelt were in an automobile in Rochester, Minnesota, where Roosevelt's son  James was undergoing surgery, and were listening by car radio to a giant  Nazi Party rally in Nuremberg. After hearing Hitler's harangue and his unveiled threats, Roosevelt snapped off the radio, turned to Hopkins, and told him to go looking immediately for new aircraft-factory sites on the West Coast. “The President was sure then,” Hopkins later wrote, that we were going to get into war, and he believed that air power would win it."**  Though Hopkins seemed to indicate that Roosevelt had simply changed his mind about air power after hearing Hitler’s speech, the truth wasn’t quite that simple. Hitler's rapid buildup of the German air force had made Roosevelt as air-minded as everyone else and Hopkins's own arguments had further influenced him. When Hopkins and Arnold got together after Hopkins's quick trip to the West Coast, Arnold had to do very litte “indoctrinating.” Hopkins was already with him, and perhaps a little ahead of him. He believed that the funds allotted to the Works Progress Administration, a Depression relief agency of which he was the director, could and should be diverted to the construction of new aircraft factories. Arnold, without disagreeing, pointed out also that the current painstaking, plane-by-plane mode of aircraft production would have to be changed, that the manufacturers would have to be persuaded to install production-line methods  While Hopkins went back to Roosevelt with all the ideas they had exchanged, includi