eed some airplanes if they wanted to protect themselves against Hitler. And the British, despite Prime Minis- ter Chamberlain, were beginning to realize they would need many more planes than they had.  One possible factor in awakening the French, who were now producing for themselves about forty-five military planes per month, was a series of conversations’ on October 1 and 3 between Monnet and Charles Lindbergh, who had visited Hitler's Germany several times, and as an avowed admirer of the Germans. Having already seen the extent of Hitler’s military buildup, he impressed upon Monnet the need for  Thomas M. Coffey = 188  mechanics, everything we had, that at first, even after Munich, it was  difficult to get my staff to adjust their minds to a realistic plan.” Calling his staff together, he explained that because of events in  Europe, it was time for them to work out an air program w hich would  meet any eventuality. How many planes did they think would be needed?  He went around the table, asking each man. When he added up and averaged their replies, the estimate came to a mere 1,500.  The figure shocked him. He began breaking it down into various areas or possible war theaters. How many planes would be needed, he asked, to defend the Philippines? Hawaii? Alaska? Panama? The figure began to expand, but even then, the highest estimate he could get from his staff members was  500 planes. Already thinking in much larger terms himself, he left in his office the easel on which he had written the figure. In the years that followed, he would point to it whenever one of his men seemed to be “thinking in small terms.”  One man who knew how to think in large terms without Arnold's prodding was George Marshall, assistant chief of staff until October 15, 1938, and thereafter deputy chief of staff. Marshall's influence within the General Staff had increased quickly since his assignment to it the previous summer because the quiet force of his personality and the sharpness of hi