ggestion, his solution to the problem would have deserved a high place in the annals of cynicism. But in fact, he was simply proposing a stopgap measure. To find a more substantial remedy, he immediately sent C. R. Smith to India,"  Smith found the commanding officer of the Hump operation, Brig. Gen. Earl Hoag, in a New Delhi hotel, about a thousand miles from the air route into China, “How are things going over the Hump?” Smith asked  Hoag said they were going pretty well  “When were you over there last?”  He hadn't actually been over the Hump as yet, he said, but he got written reports on it  When Smith flew the Hump for the first time, he could see why neither Hoag nor anyone else might like the experience. Smith, who had virtually covered the globe during his years as an airline executive,  found the Himalayas “the toughest flying place in the world You could be flying at $  9,000 feet and look up at mountains.” The monsoon rains were so severe that one A.T.C. station had been soaked with 244 inches in a year. The C-46s and C-47s that flew the route couldn't get above the mountains. They had to fly through the saddles, dodging clouds as well as peaks because inside any cloud there could be a peak. Since the Himalayas sloped toward sea level on the south  more southerly route would haye been easier, but  and east, a  there was one  important deterrent. It would take the unarmed cargo planes over  341 = HAP  Burma, Indochina, and southern China, which were held by the  Japanese.  At the makeshift A.T.C. bases in India, there was such a housing shortage that hundreds of men had to live in tents, which increased the danger of malaria, During the monsoon seasons, twenty percent of all personnel became malaria victims. On days when it was not raining, temperatures reac hed 130 degrees, making the aircraft metal so hot the mechanics couldn't work on it. Much of the maintenance had to be done at night, which was when most of the rain fell  The heavy losses, due mostly t