ty by Captain Cowan, whom he came to know at Fort Leavenworth after Cowan's return from the Philippines. He had caught Cowan's attention because of his dashing style as a polo player and the fact that he rode around the base on a wild, outlaw horse. Athletic skill and courage seemed likely to be useful qualities in a flier. Since Arnold and Milling were two years apart at the Military Academy, they had not been pals, but they were destined now to be very close for at least the next two years, despite a certain element of competition between them. After their initial introduction to the Wright plant, they returned to Dayton, found a boardinghouse, and rented  adjoining rooms.  Their training began with twelve-hour days of ground instruction at the factory, where they learned first how the Wright airplane was constructed and maintained. It was built around a light cypress frame and covered with canvas, which had to be stretched tight and then stiffened with a chemical paint. The control wires were exposed, and their tension could be tested only by strumming them like the strings of a guitar or a violin and listening for the proper sound. The plane’s pair of side-by-side seats and the engine—just to the right of them—were also completely exposed to the elements. The two pusher-type propellors, located behind the double wings, were connected to the forty- four-cylinder engine by bicycle chains, which Arnold  horsepower, scarcely trusted when he first saw them. (It was only natural that the  Wrights should have thought of bicycle chains to drive their propellors, since they had begun their careers as bicycle builders.) Worse than that,  Dili? TEA 4 5  Ki) 9  hen Arnold and Milling arrived at Dayton in late April 1911, they found a quiet, sleepy, residential town of about 150,000 people, basically a horse-and-buggy town, on the edge of which those two stubborn brothers Orville and Wilbur Wright were trying, with their strange invention, to introduce the age of flight even