n contrast to what America was building, Sir d Arnold the engineering plans for a plane currently being y the British—a fighter plane that didn’t even have a was powered by something called jet propulsion Arnold iad better look into that rnold was in London trying to deal with British problems as >, he was forcibly reminded that he still had some difficulties Navy. He met Rear Adm. Robert L. Ghormley, then the naval observer in London, who was working on the an Anglo-American military commission. Arnold suggest- nley that there should be an American air officer on the He pointed out to Ghormley that “war today is an air war ay e Air alone can bring Germany to its knees if anything can.” hould have realized, that was no way to talk to a Navy man vould have none of it.” Arnold wrote in his diary, “He is all the British have a strong combination Air-Army-Navy h we have Army-Navy.” But at least he had found one man who seemed unimpressed by the power of the German  yext-to-last day Arnold was again surprised when he learned eorge VI wanted to see him at Buc kingham Palace. After “a own seemingly endless corridors,” which were cold because palace windows had been shattered by bombs, he entered a rere was His Majesty. They shook hands and talked for more your about “everything from Hitler to Washington, from war sradually it occurred to Arnold that he was taking up too e king's time. But how did one end a conversation with a le always tell you how to enter and greet a king,” he said to it why is it that no one ever tells a fellow how to leave a king? uu say?”  \rnold said was, “Sir, I know you are a very busy man and ) do, so I will leave.” The king shook hands again and smiled  when Arnold made his way alone back down the long « hilly  » the room where he had left his hat, the king's aides there  Thomas M. Coffey 230  seventeenth-century castle an hour late; but that didn’t matter, since  Churchill’s conversation seldom reached high gear until after midnight On this occa