re out on patrol this afternoon. Before Arnold left, they returned with the news that they had sunk two Japanese transports. Arnold was so impressed he decided to recommend Saunders for his first star, “Saunders deserves much credit,” he wrote in his diary, “for looking after his men and at the same time carrying on such successful operations.” There was one other heartening thing about Saunders. Unlike some of the generals and admirals to whom Arnold had spoken, this flying colonel had no doubt that the Japanese would eventually be driven back,  The next day, September 28, at 4:30 p.m., Arnold arrived on Ghormley’s flagship again, for a conference with him and Nimitz (who had flown in from Hawaii), Kenney, and Gen. Richard Sutherland (representing MacArthur), and Miff Harmon, representing his own South Pacific command. The meeting was devoted largely to general- ities, and Arnold emerged from it with several depressing conclusions. The Navy's big drive in the Solomons was now considered “a limited offensive” to stop the Japanese from further advance. The Navy did not intend to help MacArthur any more than necessary, but the Navy and MacArthur agreed on one thing—the Pacific was the only important war theater  After listening to both sides, Arnold was more than ever convinced that there had to be unity of command in the Pacific, The Japanese, with fewer troops, were pushing the Americans around because the man in command of the Japanese could concentrate his forces at any point of attack without having to talk some other commander into helping him. But the prospects for a unified American command were dim because neither Nimitz nor MacArthur would accept it unless he were named supreme commander  When Arnold returned to Washington, he was greeted by two items of good news for a change. On October 1, the first U.S. jet plane, a fighter built by Bell Aircraft from the English plans he brought back in 1941, had successfully completed its maiden flight. Also, of more im