hidyn to built you up for the job that you now have. I give you full credit for ead hy ied  having the inherent ability—the knowledge and judgement that ci goes with the command that you now hold. That being the case, I see Losaatarniiet  no reason in the world for any fears or suspicion as to our gaia relationship entering your mind. But you must know me well ica enough by this time to know that I am very outspoken. I say what I sige think and do what I think best, so when you hear these rumors, keen  comments, criticisms or what-have-you, always remember that if kg there is anything serious you will be the first one to hear of it and it i kin pol will come from me direct toe  Thomas M, Coffey * 318  several ball-bearing plants in Schweinfurt were badly damaged. But the  | Fs mid-July 1943, Arnold flew to California for five days for the purpose of “putting the fear of God in the West Coast members of the aircraft industry.”' Production had dropped off slightly and he wanted everyone to know he wouldn't tolerate it. “I hope I needled some of [their] complacency and self-satisfaction out of them,” he said in a letter to Gene Beebe, who was now commanding a bomb group in China. To this he added a wholly superfluous afterthought. “I guess I don’t have to explain to you that I'm personally never satisfied.”  His doctors were trying now with limited success to keep him from working full days. Col. Fred M. Dean, a fighter pilot with such a distinguished record in Africa that he became a member of Arnold's council in July, noticed that he was still coming into the office at 7:30 a.m., but he would try to leave at 3:00 p.m. He also tried to nap for twenty minutes after lunch each day. Nevertheless, he found time to read twenty to fifty cables from the various theaters of action each morning. He digested and answered sever al memoranda daily, attended meetings of the Joint Chiefs, consulted with Marshall, talked to an endless stream of visitors, wrote a dozen or more letter