ies were now increasing at such an appalling rate that Congress, on March 2, 1913, passed a law establishing “flight pay” for military aviators—a stipend that would amount to an additional thirty-five percent of base pay. But one had to survive in order to collect it, and there was a pessimistic feeling among the thirty or so fliers in the Air Service that their current casualties, about twenty percent, would soon be as high as fifty percent. Though aviation had begun in America, the Western European nations had done much more to advance the art, and judging by casualty rates, the Europeans were building better planes - were already  than the Americans. In France, for instance, where th six hundred aviators, the death rate was one person for every 54,000 miles flown, while in America the rate was one for every 12,800 miles.’ (Since Arnold, before grounding himself, had made more than one thousand flights at an average of at least twenty-five miles per flight, he had already beaten the statistics.) During the first eight months of 1913,  66  Thomas M. Coffey  brush with death had filled him with more than temporary fear of flying. He had succumbed to a depressing phobia, which gave no indication that it might ever subside. He was not the first person to suffer suc ha trauma. The Air Service, aware of the mental strain of flying those unpredictable airplanes, took a fairly sympathetic view of grounded pilots, and Arnold, with his distinguished record and his comprehensive knowledge of aviation, was no exception. To make use of this knowledge, the Air Service put him behind a desk in Washington as an aide to Brig. Gen. George P. Scriven, now the chief signal officer. Arnold was thus placed in the ironic and anomalous position of being a recognized  aviation expert who was afraid to get into an airplane.  He was not happy in his new job. It was difficult to remain in the one branch of service that reminded him daily of his phobia, and to face every day a group of associ