uce to dinner at Tenth Army headquar- ters, and afterward they had some time to themselves.  Like any father whose son is in a battle situation, Arnold was worried about Bruce and wanted to give him some advice based on information he had picked up in Guam. He had been told that Japanese troops there, after killing some American guards, had committed atrocities upon them,  Visibly uncomfortable, he said to Bruce, “They cut off their "He hesitated as if he didn’t know how to continue. He had never found it easy to use vulgar language. He might do so, on a rare occasion, in front of a man like Chuck Stone, whom he had known for a long time, but he had never talked that way in front of his own sons. Flustered but determined, he said finally, “their ‘peters.’ ”  Bruce was momentarily surprised by his father's evident embarrass- ment, but when he reflected upon it, he realized that within the Arnold family, “we had never talked about our bodies.” His father was still so Victorian in his sexual attitudes that “he couldn't even talk Army talk with me.” But as Bruce realized how difficult it had been for his father to tell him that story, he also realized why his father had done so Arnold obviously believed the danger that such a thing could happen to his son was very real, and he was therefore obliged to warn Bruce despite his  own embarrassment.  During his inspections on Okinawa Arnold concluded that more  airfields would have to be built immediately for the B-29s he was  planning to send there, as well as more ports and post facilities, It  Thomas M. Coffey  his deputies in Washington, mobilizing the say as his representatives at this meeting. Tt sent LeMay flying back to Washington to firsthand briefings at the meeting. Arnold final drive on Japan an Air Forces show, wh overwhelming argument in favor of estat force.  From Guam, he flew to Iwo Jima, abou for a look at the scars of battle and the air fi built there. While at Iwo, he picked up an ite him grateful to the m