Hap might return to flying. Yet it didn’t seem likely that a man with his restless energy would be content to be a  supply officer, She was determined not to interfere.  Thomas M. Coffey * 84  In late January 1916, when Arnold had finished the usual two-year tour of duty in the islands, he was reassigned from the 13th Infantry back to the 3rd Infantry and sent home. It was a difficult two-month journey by way of China, with Bee ill most of the time in their tiny cabin Fortunately, one of Hap's friends, Lt. Millard F. “Miff” Harmon, was on the same ship, and he became so infatuated with baby Lois that he would take her off their hands and wheel her around the decks for hours at a time while Hap tried to comfort her mother."*  When the ship reached Hawaii en route to San Francisco, a cablegram, through the adjutant general in Washington but actually from Maj. Billy Mitchell, was awaiting Hap. Mitchell had become the executive officer of the Air Service, which was now called the Aviation Section of the Signal Corps. His enthusiasm for aviation had finally expressed itself in something more than words. In addition to transfer- ring to the Air Service, he had even learned to fly, during the winter of 1915-16, at his own expense. And as the war in Europe continued without any end in sight, he was determined to enlarge and improve the U.S. air arm so it would be ready if the country became involved.  Though Mitchell knew the circumstances of Arnold's resignation from fiying, he was also familiar with Arnold's abilities and aerial accomplishments, Arnold was exactly the kind of officer the Aviation Section needed. It was about time he forgot his phobia and came back where he belonged. The Mitchell cablegram was double-edged. Would Arnold volunteer for duty in the Aviation Section? Or, if so detailed, would he object to it?  With some apprehension, Arnold sent a cable to Washington asking what that meant  The return cable from Washington presented him with a Catch-22 choice: