e promptly ordered Peterson, his pilot, to go to the operations building for briefing.®  There had been very few flights over the Hump at night, but Genera! Bissell and his pilot were traveling with them, and Bissell’s pilot  indicated he was familiar with the 525-mile two-and-a-half-hour route,  which was important because they would be flying over some very high  mountains and, at intervals, ground held by the Japanese.  Peterson took off and climbed through rough air to eighteen thousand feet. The first indication he might have trouble was when the navigator, who had never before flown above ten thc yusand feet, turned giddy from lack of oxygen and couldn’t function. About the same time, Peterson realized that Bissell’s pilot didn't know much more about the Hump than he did. At the midway point, there was supposed to be a beacon; they couldn’t find it. The radio operator tried to get the K’un-ming station but couldn’t raise it, He could get other Chinese stations, and Japanese stations, but not K’un-ming. As he later learned, there was a fifty-mile-per-hour tail wind that night. After two r their  and a half hours, by which time they should have been n  destination, they still couldn’t see it. In fact, they were beyond it. Peterson went to the rear and told Arnold they were lost. Though  Arnold showed no emotion at this news, he later confided his fears to his  diary: “There is always the possibility of Jap planes being abroad. They probably have radar. . . . If we turn back into the wind do we run out of gas in the mountains? Do we jump? If so, when? . .. What should we  take with us if we have to jump? What will the people back home think if Army Air Forces, and the  they hear that the Commanding General, U.S Commanding General, Tenth Air Force [Bissell] and the others with us have been taken prisoners? What are the best shoes to wear in hiking through the jungle?”  Meanwhile, Peterson had gone into a square search pattern. Bissell's pilot was not very confiden