rude but indisputable loop.  An even more telling indication of the effect the Wrights had upon Hap Arnold was a remark he made in summing up his feelings about them. “More than anyone I have ever known or read about, the Wright brothers gave me the sense that nothing is impossible.” In later years, when Arnold’s Air Force subordinates were forced to cope with his stubborn insistence on this belief, they could have blamed the Wright brothers.  After their first solo flights, Arnold and Milling continued to practice almost daily for another six weeks, polishing their skills and  convincing themselves that they now controlled the airplane instead of  Thomas M. Coffe  affinity for the aircraft they could se through the seat of their pants. Arno because he didn’t consider himself a “s  “In that day, when there was none of planes, controls or flying equipmen career, “it was seldom the plane, or an! almost always the pilot, who was blame: believe that to keep up your morale. E ninety per cent of flying, and the pilo find young airmen who insist, ‘Joe mu {to account for his accident].’ All this in the pants’ flying tradition much longe Arnold said this, he had already prove portant to a flier than instinct by rapi thousand young civilian groundlings ir World War II.)  In any event, Milling did conside derived some satisfaction from the fact t of training and one hour and fifty-four Arnold, who wasn’t ready until he hac eight minutes of flying time, “didn’t like have felt slighted when, after two days « took an interest in Milling, going up w first week, but never with Arnold. It wz first week, came to Milling and said, “  After flying around uneventfully Milling came back over the field and landing instead of making the usual k seeing this strange circular descent for became popular), rushed out onto tl student was about to crash. But when became more than ever fascinated by flying with me nearly every day.” Milling to the point of idolatry. “It was from hin he later decla