er under construction by the Boeing Aircraft Company. And he encouraged the development at the Air Corps Tactical School, Maxwell Field, Alabama, of the strategic and tactical theories that were destined to become Air Corps doctrine by the time the United States entered World War II. These theories were based on the anticipated development of large, well-armed bombers, like the B-17, which would be able to hit vital enemy targets located hundreds  > and 1936, the Air Corps  of miles within enemy borders. In | almost had to bootleg such theories to its men because the Army  ground forces, the Navy, and the majority of the political establish- ment were not ready to accept them, or even to have them taught  The prevailing political doctrine of the 1930s was that the nation could conceivably be forced into a defensive war but would never enter an offensive war. Hence there was no need for long-range bombers. The Navy would keep any enemy from American shores, and if an enemy did manage to land, the Army would deal with him  Though Hitler's threat to Europe was already becoming evident, no American politician, not even the very popular President Roose- velt, would dare suggest at that time the possibility that the United States might one day send a force across the Aulantic to oppose aggression.  Andrews, together with Arnold and his other subordinates, used the G.H.Q. Air Force, in their maneuvers, not only to demonstrate the mobility of air power, but to test, as best they could, the long-range theories being developed by the bright young instructors at Maxwell Field—men like Harold L. George, Muir Fairchild, Kenneth L. Walker, Claire L. Chennault, Robert Olds, Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., Donald Wilson, Laurence S$. Kuter and others—who had been influenced themselves by such European air strategists as Guilio Douhet of France and Lord Hugh Trenchard of England.* But some of these men were misled, at that time, by the technology available to them. The fastest fighter plan