eral Staff School in 1929, and the two had always been friendly. He had also graduated from the Army War College in 1933. He outranked Arnold as a lieutenant colonel by one year, But he had entered the Air Service in 1917, several years after Arnold, and in 1934 he was commanding a pursuit group at Selfridge Field, Michigan—a less impressive position  than Arnold's, with a pursuit and a bomber group plus a large base under his control.  Arnold had told Bee  about Foulois’s promise of a star and it seemed to her that he was “feeling pretty good” about the possibility that he might soon be a general. But to his sur prise and consternation he read the promotion list one day and learned that a colonel named James E. Chaney, a man who had never attracted much attention and was a year  behind a yest Pi m und him at West Point, had been picked to get the star that Foulois had promised him  As soon as he learned this, he called Bee and said,  “I'm sorry you married such a bum  “What are you talking about?” she asked  162  163 * HAP  “Didn't you hear the report that Chaney got the star?  “Yes, I did,” she said, “but that doesn’t make you a bum.”  He could not conceal his deep discouragement. “I don’t know whether it’s worth going on or not,” he said. “I don't know what's ahead for me.” But Arnold's discouragement never seemed to last long. This time he turned it into anger, went to Washington at the first opportunity, and marched right in to see General MacArthur, who was still chief of staff and whom he had known since 1912, when they both lived in Washington’s Army and Navy Club, What, he demanded, did MacAr- thur have against him?  “I have to know,” he said, “because my whole career depends on it.”  MacArthur seemed bewildered until Arnold explained his visit. “I  was told I was  MacArthur took some papers from his desk and glanced through them. “Your name wasn’t even on the list,” he said.  Arnold had been less than warm to Benny Foulois ever since the Mitchell trial, at