old occupied Himmler's hotel suite and rode around in an open touring car that had belonged to the late Adolf Hitler.** Arnold had come there primarily to find Hank, whose unit was supposed to be stationed nearby, and eventually they did make connec- tions. With the permission of his commanding officer, Hank Joined their party the next day when they took off for Berlin  On the morning of the sixteenth, the American Joint Chiefs met to discuss the coming conference, but spent much of the time discussing instead what should be done with the powerful new weapon that was due to be tested any day now. If it worked, should it be used against Japan? Arnold said he was certain that B-29s with conventional bombs could force the Japanese to surrender. Admiral King said his naval blockade would eventually starve them into surrender. Marshall said the Japanese ought to be warned about the bomb before it was dropped, in the hope that they would be persuaded to surrender  Later that day, the Joint Chiefs assembled with their British counter-  parts for a pleasant meeting, unaware that, even as they talked, some-  1 * HAP  thing far more earthshaking than any item on the conference agenda was taking place near Alamogordo, New Mexico, That evening, Presi dent Truman would learn about it from a cable received by Secretary of War Stimson. But Marshall and Arnold were not to learn about it until the following day. At lunch on the seventeenth they were told that Stimson wanted to see them. When they reached his villa, he showed them the now-famous cable from Washington that informed him that the first atomic bomb had been successfully detonated in the New Mexico desert:  Operated on this morning. Diagnosis not yet complete but results seem satisfactory and already exceed expectations. Local press  release necessary as interest extends great distance  Stimson, Marshall, and Arnold sat down immediately to discuss the possible use of the astonishing new weapon against Japan. It has been s