commodae pple who dd et the uneon, a des for thus pel emphasing is sympa or Mi  ld get Luar  BH Lrbcue party that nigh Patrick ated thence, ich Armld went inti ofce io mae sree vas ined th babu party.  "Si be ai, Wee hang,  hat afer,  "Yess Hoon” Patrick sa impatient vasa phrase he olen we wih sores one  be as peep "Aad we would ke Ves Uh  sd, il ot listening  “Allright, know, | kw” the generar out inpatient,  Maybe be does know, Armold cough to hime, Maybe someone che fad akead invied bin, Wibou caning ante cut, Arnold tthe room  bso “n a wrath,  The ext morn, Pai summoned hi ‘nd demanded to hoo why he al not ben ivi” othe evening pat  123. # HAP  e Army and become a pa  art of the venture.  Thomas M. Coffey # 122  Finally, when he ran out of breath, Arnold managed to say, “Sir S "Yes, yes, I know!” Patrick shouted, and stopping short, picked up a paperweight from his desk and threw it at Arnold.*  It is possible that despite such incidents General Patrick liked Arnold better than Arnold liked him. Capt. Ira Eaker, who was an aide to Patrick at the time, got the impression from him that he actually admired Arnold, considered him a “bright, able officer and was com- pletely satisfied with the work he was doing Tf it had been otherwise, Patrick would quickly have sent him elsewhere. But Arnold, who did not share Eaker’s insight into Patrick’s attitudes, was becoming discouraged  again and once more considered resigning from the service.  This time he had a plan for getting ahead in civilian life. As Air Service information officer, he had been reading reports from the U.S. military attaché in Colombia about a German airline called SCADTA (Sociedad Colombo-Alemana de Transportes Aéreos), which was opera- ting between Bogota and Barranquilla. The line was already flying “far too close to the Panama Canal” when Arnold learned that its manager, a man named Dr. Peter Paul von Bauer, intended to lengthen his route through Panama and Central America to Cuba and the United S