s earlier, he said, because he didn’t have proper replacements. Now he had found the men he wanted. Brig Gen. Fred L. ialicdyipmim Anderson would be the new bomber commander and Maj. Gen. William dct fthndhid  ist dda sheet fra tao ibe mepibnte ape ranted lt oink dyacag tena  mb  Kepner would be the fighter commander. For air service commander, he would be glad to have Hugh Knerr. (It proved to be an excellent  choice. Knerr did the job so well he was a major general by the end of  the war. But unfortunately, his estrangement from Arnold, who had recommended him, was never resolved.)  Having got the business end of his letter out of the way, Eaker turned to his personal relations with Arnold:  arboolad Hal  1 have always felt the closest bond of friendship between us as two seaeze vd individuals. I have never thought that you placed quite the confi- uid dence in me officially as an officer, as you did as a friend, 1 ibiglchi sometimes thought that you were tough on me officially in order to input make certain that nobody had a feeling that I got the positions I held podldig ct through our personal friendship, and to make doubly sure that you rer) did not allow that friendship to influence you unduly toward me ltl officially. . . . I shall always accept gladly and in the proper spirit, wu any advice, council or criticism from you. I do not feel, however, that (ype my past service which has come under your observation indicates igo that I am a horse which needs to be ridden with spurs Lainan yc gle  pil vor bebe gracilis  A week later, on July 7, Arnold wrote Eaker a letter that he must have hoped would clear the ¢  r between them  ih te 1 want you to get this firmly in your mind that had I not had ann  confidence in you—confidence in your ability, I would never have apiyhidyn to built you up for the job that you now have. I give you full credit for ead hy ied  having the inherent ability—the knowledge and judgement that ci goes with the command that you now hold. Tha