ere unmentionabl, and he vas 0 uncomfortable mentioning them that he would usualy resort euphemisms when forced to dos  As soon ashe saw the striker intimately engaged with the cook, he retreated hasty, eaving them with a bare minimum of words o wi “Pl deal with you later.” He was sill muttering to himself in the htchen  when Bee came down fr breakfast  “AIL want inthe morning i a couple of eggs and a gas of mil” he said to her, ‘and what do T get? The house i cold, there's no breakfast and I find the cook and striker fornicating inthe basement.”  “You ind them wht!” exclaimed Bee, as much astonished to hear hi mention it as she was to learn that they were doing i  *Fomiaing” he repeated.“ cant get any breakfast around here because ofthe goddamned fornication  From the kichen door came the question, “What fornication?” andthe two parents tuned to find all hee of their children listening,  Fornication was an offense Amold found too embarrassing to tolerate, He damised both of the foricator, but he soon real it woud be easy to replace the cook, beau god ones were had to find on the base, While be launched bis earch, Bee bad to fil in, and afer eating her ooking for jut ashort in, he hastened in bis frs lo get someone ¢ fs. When he revealed his problem to several Cavaly  * HAP  se that? No wonder the kid can't read. rash,”  [ll tell you what I'll do, I'll write you a real things. And it'll be a hell of a lot  132  Thomas M. Coffey  officers at the mess hall, one of them, Maj. Alexander M. Milton (whose son, Theodore R. Milton, would one day become an Air Force four-star general), mentioned that he was about to be transferred and would be forced to give up an outstanding striker-cook combination, a Ninth Cavalry soldier and his wife.  When Arnold went home and told Bee they were about to hire the couple who worked for the Miltons, she said, “You mean Maggie and Cheatham?”  “Yes,” he said. “What's wrong with them?”  “Nothing’s wrong,” she said, an expression of delight s