de a lot of engagements over here. Can I see the letter that authorizes  quite  you? No, you can’t because there isn’t any letter. I have my  Smith said verbal instructions from General Arnold and I did just exactly what he asked me to do.”  “That's extraordinary behavior,” the admiral exclaimed  he said, “we came over here  Smith became impatient. “Well, look and took over this goddamned place and we're building an airfield here now. As long as I satisfy General Arnold, I think I'll get along pretty  Thomas M. Coffey 294  The first American heavy bomber group arrived in this country accompanied by its fighter group, together with some eighteen thousand American Air Force personnel as long ago as the end of July. By the end of September the number of American Air Force usand. So far the results have been pitifully small. Far from dropping bombs on Germany, the American daylight bombers have not ventured beyond Lille  Meanwhile, the American public has been led to believe that a really serious contribution has been made by the American Air Force  personnel has risen to about fifty-five th  Addressing himself in this memo to the American daylight bombing methods, Churchill Wrote  Considering the American professional interests and high reputa- tions which are engaged in this scheme, and the shock it ild be to the American people and to the Administration if the policy proved a glaring failure, we must expect most obstinate perserverance in this method  And in a January 10, 1943, memorandum to Sir Archibald Sinclair, the secretary of state for air, who also had reservations about the American air effort but was now trying to soften the prime minister's criticisms, Churchill wrote:  suld be “dis- that we should argue against policy, but only that they should not be encourage obstinately and also that they should be ac capable of night bombing  I have never suggested that they [the Americans] sh couraged” by us, that is to say,  heir to persist vely urged to become  Arno