. But he knew which man he'd be working hardest to help. Arnold was now ready to go all the way with Mitchell in his struggle for  air power.  eae began his new job as the Air Service public information chief at a time when a new airplane-battleship controversy was explod- ing in the press, and he wasted no time leaping into it. In late 1924, the Navy had held secret bombing tests on the battleship Washington, a modern vessel that had to be scrapped by international agreement under the terms of an armament limitation treaty. Naval publicity men, without disclosing the outcome of those tests, had leaked rumors that the Washington's hull, made of a new kind of steel armor, had easily withstood two one-ton aerial bombs dropped on it and finally had to be sunk by the big guns of the battleship Texas  Arnold was able to ascertain from air power advocates within the Navy that the facts in the case were quite different. Two dummy sand-filled projectiles had been dropped on the Washington from four thousand feet, but no bombs had been dropped, and therefore no airplane-battleship confrontation had taken place during the destruction of the vessel, which had actually been sent to the bottom by a combi- nation of depth charges and naval gunfire  The Navy campaign to make it look otherwise had been effective, however, and before Arnold had even assumed his new job officially, he found himself trying to sweep away the rumors that Navy publicity men had planted in the press. Typical of Arnold’s method and the work he would be doing as the top Air Service publicity man was a letter he sent on January 23, 1925, to E. N. Gout of the Boeing Company in Seattle, protesting against a cartoon in the Seattle Times that suggested that “after four days of futile bombing by airplanes, the battleship Washington was sunk by torpedoes, mines and fourteen-inch guns, and accordingly, an airplane as an offensive weapon against battleships is ineffective.” Arnold asked Gott “as a friend  After insi