ather to go to hell.  A new base theater was under construction when he arrived and he especially enjoyed visiting the site because it seemed to him the men working on it needed a lot of guidance. One day the contractor visited  Arnold at base headquarters and insisted that something had to be done  His men were civilians and they didn’t have to take it any more.  Hap spoke sharply to his father that night, which proved of course that Hap, too, needed some instruction. When Hap persisted in his error, the old man took considerable umbrage, but he did, thereafter, stay away from the theater site. Fortunately for him, other activities on the base needed his attention. He began to spread his advice around, and there were no more complaints about him for quite a while because no group was getting a concentrated dose of him. One day, however, he discovered the repair hangars on the flight line. When he saw what the mechanics were doing with those aircraft engines, he couldn't resist pointing out their mistakes.  all. The 5 signs that Air Corp arranged When he strategy buses tot Rive: they who cancel hi men paid continuin portion ¢ Not establish instructer clubs, wh special di preach tl  trouble w  In J Hap’s fat now on houses a1 though t) them on cash in th price.” T on the e shall nev than fifty  Bye lost, ever effort to because | had non him, Ha When he    Thomas M. Coffey * 148  Here was an encroachment Hap had to view seriously. He didn't want a plane to crash because some mechanic had repaired its engine in  compliance with his father’s instructions. Unfortunately, the argument  Thomas M. Coffey * 148  Here was an encroachment Hap had to view seriously. He didn’t want a plane to crash because some mechanic had repaired its engine in compliance with his father’s instructions Unfortunately, the argument he had with his father about this issue caused a wound that never completely healed. Dr. Arnold, angry, depressed, and disappointed, got on a Greyhound bus and returne