im and his entou- rage to visit the front. The procession of cars and jeeps stopped near the foot of Monte Cassino; then Clark led the party, mostly generals, up an open road, bringing them even closer to the German-held mountain Hank and Rosie O'Donnell, who had ridden together in a rear jeep, followed the others reluctantly because Hank, who had been fighting in this area, realized that Clark was leading them into very dangerous territory. They were on a road so exposed that the Germans could look directly down at them and, if they used their field glasses, could even read the stars on the collars. Suddenly an 88-millimeter gun fired and the shell landed to their right  331 * HAP  “The next one will be on our left,” Hank said to Rosie. “Then they'll have us bracketed.”  The next one was indeed on their left, whereupon both Hank and O'Donnell dove into the nearest ditch. The third shell came right at them but luckily landed beyond them.  A few moments later General Arnold saw them in the ditch and ? You look like a couple of  said, “What are you two doing down ther  damned fools.  O'Donnell, an outspoken Irishman and one of the few men around Arnold who didn't hesitate to say what he pleased to him, spoke sharply “We look a hell of a lot better than you'd have looked if that thing had hit you.”  Before that day ended, Hap Arnold got a good look at war in all its gory horror. And the description he wrote in his diary that night showed vividly the chilling impression it made upon him:  Aircraft fighting overhead. ... Bombs and shells bursting on the German positions a scant 1,800 yards away. Men crouching behind  walls in the mud. Tents under bushes and trees. AA guns opening up at FW-190s and 109s overhead. Spitfires coming into the fight Infantrymen crouching behind any kind of cover, German  observers watching our movements up the road from the hill beyond. A tank blown to bits from running over a mine. Five bodies lying in small pieces on the ground. ... Jeeps an