dministering to German industry. Despite such time as an invasion could be launched, the i supe  F , they would continue to be the only American weapons hurting Germany. His faith in daylight  bombing, though it may have been shaky when he arrived, was strength- ened now. Even the Schweinfurt  their losses, he decided they were indeed hurting Germany  raid, costly as it had been, seemed ssi hwhile to him when he studied the photographs of damage to the  all-bearing factories. And when Portal spoke to him about the impor- tance of knocking out those factories completely, he decided the  Fortresses should go back to Schweinfurt without delay to finish the job they had begun i : I know you'll get to it,” Arnold said to Eaker, “as soon as the weather permits.”* , He did not say, “as soon as I send you long-range fighters.” Arnold i Eaker agreed that the war wouldn't wait to be fought. They had to eep fighting it with whatever weapons were available. They didn't dare rive the Ge: : K : give the Germans time to rebuild and repair the damage already done to their industries. But Arnold did concede now, more  20Sitively than eve before, F lan ever  that long-range fighters were desperately needed. He had been somewhat late in coming fully to this realization. W riting about the P-51  $23 & HAP  in his memoirs, he took upon himself some of the blame for its slow development. “That we did not have it sooner was the Air Forces’ own fault.” But once he realized the need, he rushed the production of P-51s with his customary urgency,  The P-5ls did not arrive in England quickly enough, however, to alleviate the pain of the second Schweinfurt mission Within two weeks after Arnold returned to Washington, he was again becoming impatient for more action against Germany, On September 7,9, 15, 16, 23, and 26, Baker's Fortress fleet, not yet recovered from the battering at Stuttgart and hampered by more bad weather over Germany, hit targets in France, but never with more than 300 planes