ion had been settled, Marshall could do no  more about it than Arnold. The abandonment of Bolero was as hard a blow to him as it was to Arnold. When Marshall's new man in Europe, Dwight Eisenhower, learned on July 22 that it would be Torch rather than Bolero, he said this was, in his opinion, “the blackest day in history.” And he was the man assigned to command the North African invasion Marshall, under the influence of his disappointment at the cancellation of Bolero, had then agreed to send to the Pacific several hundred planes that were originally intended for the Eighth Air Force in England. Arnold had once promised to have 3,640 combat planes in England by April 1943. He knew now that the Pacific would get about a third of those planes and that North Africa would get another third of them, meaning that the air offensive against Germany, which was the basic  foundation of Air Forces war strategy, would have to be delayed or  * HAP  maybe even abandoned. Since all of this was carefully guarded informa- tion, how would he explain to congressmen and other influential people in Washington, people who might even have the power to cut Air Forces appropriations, why he wasn’t launching the heavy blows he had been promising against Hitler?”  Spurred by this pressure, Arnold began passing it on to Eaker, urging him to get started, even though he had only one group of B-17s, which had just reached England.  On August 14, Eaker noted in his diary this pressure from Arnold. On August 17, Eaker himself led the first Amer against Hitler—a twelve-plane bombing of the railroad yards at Rouen.  an offensive thrust  It was not an impressive start. The Germans hardly bothered to oppose it. As the summer of 1942 turned into autumn, Eaker got a few more groups, but Arnold’s dream of a massive air offensive against Germany  couldn't possibly materialize, at least until 1943.  When Admiral King announced in June that the Navy, not MacAr- thur, would stage and command the island-hoppin