sc plant in Baltimore to decide whether the Air Forces should cancel production of the B-26, twin-engine, medium bomber—a plane the Martin Company called “the Marauder” but a lot of pilots were beginning to call “the Murderer.” Too many fliers were crashing in it Doolittle recommended a change in training methods “because we were training people to fly a normal airplane and the B-26 was not normal.” He admitted it was an “unforgiving” airplane, one that didn’t allow a pilot to make repeated mistakes, but he liked it.  When Arnold read his report, he called him in and said, “I want you to take a B-26, fly it under any and all conditions, then go down and show those boys that flying this ship is no different from flying any other.”  When Doolittle flew to the B-26 transition school, all the student pilots, by prearrangement, had been lined up along the ramp. Suddenly  they were amazed to see a B-26 coming in to land on only one engine, a  Thomas M. Coffey  force,” he said, “No unit could have dom properly be attributed to neglect or lack in their conduct.” But he did not e knowledge of what had happened in H had allowed so many planes to be sittir when the Japanese attackers arrived. A commander, Gen. Lewis H. Brereton. H said they didn’t have enough airfields f Hawaiian air commander, Gen. F. L. Ma ordered the planes to be grouped tight! would be easier to guard them against f bombers had found this tight grouping |  also said many of the air crewmen were  Trained mechanics, for example, were ; patrol duties.  None of this made any sense to A found it difficult to explain the debacle understand it himself  Why weren't the planes dispersed, sh there more airfields in the Philippines?  “Because MacArthur wouldn't hav insisted that if we got an increase of squa:  to have the same increase,  nd Congres:  The more hideous aspects of the sit upon Arnold. For three years he had bee that if too many planes were sent to En end up without air power at a moment needed. That dir