ne The plan for this mission, brilliandy conceived by Col. Orvil Ander- son and approved by both Arnold and Marshall, was to cut oil supplies to the German armies in Russia by knocking out the huge Rumanian refineries that fed them. Since there couldn't possibly be enough bombers available for large-scale, high-altitude pattern bombing, An derson’s design called for ninety-nine B-24s to stage a surprise, low- altitude skip-bombing raid from nearby Syria.  Because it gradually became obvious that nowhere near ninety-nine  planes could be made available, Anderson scaled his plan down to  279 HAP  Anderson didn’t know that, while Arnold admired Brett's adminis-  trative skills. they had not been close friends since 1938, when Brett  Thomas M. Coffey 278  thirty-three planes departing from North Africa, Even that many bombers could place more than three tons of bombs on each of the eleven prime targets—but only if those targets were easy to see. Anderson stipulated that the mission should not be staged unless the day was absolutely clear  Despite this, Halverson took off with only thirteen planes on a  cloudy day and bombed through an overcast. The mission did more  oe  279 HAP  Anderson didn’t know that, while Arnold admired Brett’s adminis- trative skills, they had not been close friends since 1938, when Brett tried hard for the chief of Air Corps job, which went to Arnold. To replace Brett, Arnold sent George Kenney from the Fourth Air Force in California, It proved to be one of the best choices he ever made. Without losing his own strong individuality, Kenney pleased MacArthur from the  start by his enterprising and imaginative use of the few airplanes he  had  In June, Tooey Spaatz, after organizing the flow of Eighth Air Force planes, men, and supplies from the United States to England, took off himself for London to assume command of the Eighth. To team with his bomber commander, Ira Eaker, who was already in England, he took along Gen. Frank “Monk” March Field d