f an established physician, he ticed himself to Dr. Joseph K. Weaver of Norristown, then com studies at Jefferson Medical College, from which he was grac 1878. After practicing for a year in Evansburg, he opened ar Gladwyne, where he also bought a farm, and where Henr Arnold was born on June 25, 1886  Henry was the third child and second son in a famil children. Because Dr. Arnold, like his father, retained mz  Mennonite standards despite his conversion to the B  aptist -and-easy, fun-filled place for his growing At all times a stern, exacting man,  house was not a free.  , he strenuously disapprove kind of play, either for children or adults,  nor did he suffer lighthearted banter  The main purpose of life was salvation, road to salvation was work, of which he demanded as much fror  lth  til  ty bila Fectann bo ih gid Tagh ign ayaa  volvo aan eta Uuldohle use ld osflus abd serene rns oda di soe ian cea on tae thonip lyin abba Aly blatntengyoldlatinind so Kap oe nt dealin dala Seventeen amie naar ton atin lhe  Teed um dante wood aa (Nec ld eA pm gl tb. aj deat eaten bivdidielaey inky ae vichyueriadya imesh bal  UN faa teak Hou ley a ocr tytn Tbh iidpseinalsictignn Nett eon ff ‘ema tsa hoe nai: Audit Hah Ty, inti  ni ify thre gett bimini  pulled hele  Unhyowmvcblti nba kerb ihn  inking ae  AEM Hide neha tai  lenge knen ed weigh nl  tela tt  ul  15 * HAP  four on his mother's. It was not surprising, therefore, that in the Civil  War, his grandfather Thomas Arnold fought with the Union forces at  Geuysburg. And when the Spanish-American War began, his father joined as surgeon of the Pennsylvania Cavalry, taking part in the invasion of Puerto Rico in July 1898. By the time he mustered out of 1898, Dr  the military life that he immediately joined the Pennsylvania National  service, in November Herbert Arnold was so enamored of Guard, in which he served with extraordinary distinction as a reserve medical officer until his retirement in 1922. His work in improving the Nati