to catch up. His gene his problems in school and partly from his relationship with his father; but Arnold probably didn't realize this, as sensitivity was not one of his more prominent virtues. Bruce had always felt that his father treated him differently from the other children. He hadn't yet forgiven his father for not introducing him to Ben Lyon on the porch that day at March Field seven or eight years earlier. When, almost finished with high school, he had mentioned that he wanted to go to West Point, his father had refused to take him seriously. “You want to go there,” he said, “just because your brother's there.” When he enrolled in the Naval Academy, he was reenforcing within himself a feeling that he was being  Thomas M. Coffey 200  Military Academy? “How about meeting my wife and me at West Point  for lunch at the Thayer Hotel  When Lindbergh arrived at noon, he found the Arnolds alone in the main dining room of the Thayer. To help preserve Lindbergh's privacy, the manager had closed the room to everyone else. For three hours Arnold listened while Lindbergh talked about the strength of Hitler's air force and what American airmen would have to face if the country were to go to war against Germany  “Lindbergh gave me,” Arnold later recalled, “the most accurate picture of the Luftwaffe, its equipment, leaders, apparent plans, training methods, and present defects that I had so far received . Lindbergh felt that Hitler held the destruction of any major city on the continent, or in Britain, in his hands.”  When they left the hotel, they walked over to the Plain, where the Army baseball team was playing Syracuse, and sat down in the grand- stand, “For the rest of the afternoon,” Arnold recalled, “while he continued to tell us about Hitler's air force, we sat unnoticed in the grandstand, surrounded by rooting cadets, and right behind a row of reporters from the New York papers, which were trying desperately to locate Lindbergh all over the East.”  Later in the aft