ar too close to the Panama Canal” when Arnold learned that its manager, a man named Dr. Peter Paul von Bauer, intended to lengthen his route through Panama and Central America to Cuba and the United States Arnold decided, from a military point of view, that this should not be allowed. It was U.S. military doctrine at the time that no foreign power, especially one of our recent enemies, should have air rights over the Canal  After consultations in the War Department, he went to Postmaster General Harry S. New and asked him what he would do if von Bauer applied for authority to carry mail between the United States and Colombia. New said that under the law he would have to grant the franchise “unless there was some other line, preferably an American line, that could perform the service.”  An electric bulb immediately lit up in Arnold’s head. Before the day was done, he, Tooey Spaatz, and another friend, Maj. Jack Jouett, were sketching in routes and rates for an airline of their own, which they would call Pan American. When a fourth friend, a former naval officer named John Montgomery, tried out the idea on some New York financial interests and received an enthusiastic response, Arnold went back to Postmaster General New with the good news in time to block von  Bauer's mail franchise application.  By the end of summer 1925, plans for the formation of Pan  American Airways were so far advanced that Arnold had decided  123 * HAP  definitely to resign from the Army and become a part of the venture. There was talk of his being the company’s president, but that hadn't yet been decided by the financiers who were now in control of it. And before it could be decided, a chain of events began which was wo alter the plans of Arnold and his friends.  On the morning of September 4, the Navy dirigible Shenandoah was caught in a storm over Ohio and torn into three parts, killing fourteen members of the crew. It was a tragic accident but hardly an event of national military significan