eded a rest after his sojourn in the hospital. The field was no longer a busy flying school and air base. It functioned now mostly as an air depot, with only a handful of enlisted men and nine officers supervising the work of eight hundred civilians. Once the daily routine was established and his methods accepted, Arnold had little to do except to make certain his work standards were maintained. He had little reason to fly because his command was limited to this one small facility; there were no others to visit and inspect, except perhaps Ream Field, a few miles south of San Diego. But he continued  Thomas M. Coffey 108  his ulcer condition. As he was crossing the Tehachapi Pass, he “felt a bad jolt and noticed that the control wires to the tail surface had tightened.”  109 # HAP  pay him a visit in San Francisco. Since Hap and Bee were already packing to leave for San Diego when they learned that he was coming, the prospect of his arrival caused some consternation in the Arnold household.  “The furniture will be gone,” Bee reminded Hap. “We'll all be on Army cots for the last five days here.  “We'll put him in the post guesthouse for a few days,” Hap sug- gested, “and then he can travel to San Diego with us.”  That plan did not appeal to Bee. “I can see your father on the train  with our kids,” she said. “He has the patience of an angry wasp anyway, and by the time Bunky [Hank] gets trainsick and John needs a change and Billy Bruce and Lois have their first fight, he'll be ready to start his lecture on child behavior. Then you'll sound off, and before you know it, there'll be the worst train disaster since the wreck of old ninety- seven.”  Hap solved the problem by taking his father and Lois to San Diego on the night boat, and Bee and the boys followed by train. The elderly Dr. Arnold was sometimes difficult to endure, but his son was neverthe- less fortuna had always enjoyed working with wood and had developed a certain skill as a cabinetmaker. To brighten their R