erring to himself though he didn’t directly say so. The very fact that he addressed the subject was a measure of his sensitivity about it. Milling, in his testimony that day, said nothing about the dangers of flying. Thirty-four years later, when Arnold was writing his memoirs, he was still sensitive about his 1912 decision to quit flying.  n,” he  t this hearing, in answer to a question from the chairma wrote in his book, Global Mission, “I verified that I was about to be  relieved from aviation duty, at my own request. Eleanor Pool and I intended to be married in September; and in those days, you didn’t plan to continue flying after you were married—unless you were an opt- mist.”"" He seems to be suggesting there that he told the committee his marriage was the reason he quit flying. Actually he said no suc h thing at the hearing, which was attended by many people who knew otherwise. But one can easily understand that it was much less painful to him, and also quite flattering to her, to suggest that he had renounced flying not because of his fear of flying but because of his love for her. And once he had established that story in her mind, he was stuck with it for the rest of  his life.  Dr, Arnold was delighted with his son's engagement to Sidney Pool's daughter (he may even have felt he had arranged it), and as near as anyone could see, so was Mrs. Arnold. No one asked her to express the Opinions oF attitudes of the Arnold family—her husband and her daughter performed that function adequately.  Betty Arnold visited Bee Pool shortly after the engagement an- nouncement to set the bride-elect straight about one matter Betty deemed important.  “Now that you're going to be an Arnold,” she proclaimed, “you'll have to join the Baptist Church."  Bee was astonished by such presumption. Her father had belonged to the Church of England before coming to America, her mother was a Unitarian, and she considered herself a Quaker. She did not choose to  Thomas M,. Coffey * 72  qu