t, cussing himself and the newel post, when he picked up the receiver.  On the other end was Juan Trippe in New York, the prime mover in the formation of Pan American Airways, which was now a reality. Would Arnold accept an offer to become its president, Trippe asked.  He had caught Arnold at precisely the wrong moment cupied with his  il preoc- aching toe, he shouted “No, goddamnit!” and hung up." All thought of resigning his commission was now gone. He had too many things to do in the Air Service, too many ideas to test.  Soon he was conducting maneuvers to find out how the Cavalry  could best cope with enemy air attacks, how fast the horsemen would have to get off the road and seek cover when enemy strafers were approaching. And he was trying out new tactical procedures with his own airmen, seeking new ways for planes to help ground troops. General Booth was so pleased that at the end of the year, on Decem- ber 17, 1926, he wrote an extraordinary commendation for the Air Ser- vice major who had come to him the previous February in disgrace:  He is a hard worker, enthusiastic, and his judgement is sound. His recommendations are generally exceptionally worthy of consideration The progress in training between the Air Corps and the other combat units of this post has been of exceptional value and is improving all the time. His method of instruction and training of observers, ninety of whom are taking the course here, is especially good, In fact, I cannot conceive of a more desirable condition existing than does exist here between Major Arnold and his unit and the other units in this post  1 shall be very sorry to see Major Arnold leave the post but feel that his excellent service here entitles him to as favorable a recom- mendation as I can give him.  At that time, General Patrick was still the chief of the Air Service and there was no indication that Arnold was about to leave Fort Riley, nor was there any indication that he wanted to leave. He was popular with every