lero meeting in the White House was the question of sending American bombers to the R.A.F. The British had asked for thousands of them, to be incorporated into their own bombardment fleet  Arnold argued in front of the president that since America was now in the war, American young men should fly whatever bombers the United States could send to England. And Arnold's argument prevailed But it wouldn’t be easy to make the British happy about this.  Arnold decided in May to go to England himself and explain it to Portal. Marshall and Hopkins had flown to England in April to sell the  i]  dig le aveinke aie} nai ys nt pb afaik  Js  i fie jini at tht hth iat gist wend  ie  yd ti |nyhl {ahah fugit fame ul ys Nil Po ln \ yu i  {guts iui lt  | it  }  gakqudt Ja! qt  {i  Thomas M, Coffey * 272  British on the Bolero plan, but they had not told Churchill and Portal . bombers. They had enough trouble winning  they were to get no U. British approval for Bolero without spreading suc h bad news. In fact, they weren't yet certain the British had actually approved invasion of the conunent  Churchill had tentatively agreed it might be practical, but not until the spring or summer of 1943, and he had suggested that a North African landing should precede it. To clarify some of these matters, Marshall sent Major General Eisenhower along with Arnold, Also on the trip were Maj. Gen. Mark Clark of the Army, Rear Adm. Jack Towers, Arnold's naval counterpart, Col. Hoyt Vandenberg, Col. Gene Beebe, and several British officers stationed in Washington  Their “stratoliner” left Bolling Field at May 23 for Montreal and Goose Bay, Newfoundland, before heading  :15 a.m. the morning of  out into ice and fog over the Atlantic. After 540 miles of blind, treacherous flying, they had to return to Gander and try again the next day,” On the second attempt they made it to Prestwick, Scotland, the morning of the twenty-fifth, though the weather was still bad. Since it was impossible to fly to London, they