s the only one we have right now, but . “There won't be any more deliveries,” Arnold announced  “No more deliveries?”  “For some time.  But his lack of dive bombers did not concern Arnold as much as his lack of heavy bombers. And his concern about heavy bombers was intensified by the British reports that the B-17 performed badly in combat, The Air Corps was so deeply committed to the B-17 that Ar nold would be in trouble if it fell short of expectations. He was somewhat relieved when George Brett reported from England that the British disliked the plane only because they had misused it. Their training and maintenance were poor, and so was their flight planning. They had made “no attempt to institute check lists for takeoff and landing.” There was “no inspection system in effect.” One pilot was sent on a mission without ever before having flown with his crew. Neither he nor the crew had flown a B-17 above 2,000 feet before this mission, in which they had to fly above 25,000 feet. The pilot had never before used Bocing oxygen equipment, nor had he ever feathered an engine or operated the automatic pilot. The crew had never used the interphones or fired fifty-caliber machine guns,""  Brett also sent word of another B-17, which on August 15 had attacked the German battleships Scharnhorst and Gneisenau at Brest. After dropping its bombs, this plane had been attacked for a total of twenty-three minutes by two Heinkel 113s and five Messerschmitt 109s.  “Approximately 20 cannon shells” hit the plane and six of them burst  inside the fuselage. Several crew members were killed or wounded. The bomb-bay doors were jammed open. The left aileron was “practically shot away.” The trim tabs were shot away and the rudder was damaged Yet the plane returned to E ngland. People would tell many similar stories about Flying Fortresses during the next four years, but this one was especially reassuring because it was the first such story  Despite Brett's encouraging report, Arnold was aware