lly held in the Air Forces, that with the well-armed B-17 and the newly developed Norden bombsight (which during tests had reportedly placed  a bomb in a barrel from 000 feet), it would be possible for huge armadas to conduct pinpoint raids against precisely selected German targets in broad daylight. The British, who had tried daylight bombing, were reiterating that such tactics would not work against German defenses. And they were also pointing out that the Germans had failed in their attempts to use daylight bombing against British defenses. If he wanted to bomb Germany, they said, he would have to be content to do as they did—drop great loads on large cities at night.  Arnold did not intend to relinquish a plan that he and his fellow airmen had cherished ever since the appearance of the B-17. But he did have some serious discussions about the plan with the man he had selected to fulfill it—his old friend Carl Spaatz."° When Spaatz came back from England the year before after observing the Battle of Britain, Arnold had got him his first star and then assigned him to Wright Field Spaatz, who was never intensely absor bed in technical details, pleaded for some other post, but Arnold had said, “T hat’s where you're going.”"' After Spaatz had been in Dayton a week or so, he came back to Washington and went into his act again until Arnold relented and made him chief of the air staff. He was one man on whom Arnold felt he « ‘ould always rely. The two of them decided that, whatever the British might think, daylight bombing was possible, and that it would be much more conducive to winning the war than dropping bombs blindly and indis- criminately on civilians at night.  With Spaatz now the overall commander of the newly formed Eighth Air Force, an organization that existed on paper only at that time, Arnold called in another dependable old friend, Ira Eaker, who had taken over the fighter defenses on the West Coast the day after the Pearl Harbor attack. When Eaker arrived