ief. His popularity with other cadets was a mark in his favor but not a sign of unusual ability. On the basis of his military record to date, the Army could hardly regard him as a promising officer with the potential for one day assuming high command. On the other hand, there was no reason to believe he would be an incompetent officer. While his accomplishments were minor, so were the peccadilloes that had so often got him into trouble. And he had, at least, completed the rigorous course at West Point. The Army had a place for officers like him, but it was not in the elite, high-riding Cavalry. It was in the mud-slogging, footsore Infantry.  Arnold was not, however, in any mood to accept that place. So violent and persuasive was his sense of outrage at being passed over that he managed to convince even his father that he had been treated  97  27 HAP  unfairly. And his father was not the kind of man who would accept injustice without a fight, nor was he lacking in political influence. His friendship with Congressman Irving Wanger had helped get his son into West Point four years earlier. And he was also well acquainted with Pennsylvania's powerful Senator Boies Penrose, the tough, ruthless boss  of the Republican machine that ran Philadelphia. Neither of these  politicians would ignore the plea of an offended father and highly respected doctor who had the ear of so many hundreds of Pennsylvania Dutch farmers.  Penrose and Wanger, both of whom happened to be at home when  Dr. Arnold petitioned them, were so accommodating as to accompany the West Point graduate on the train to Washington in the hope of interceding personally for him with the Army's adjutant general. On the way, young Henry gave them such an earful of indignation that even he wondered later if they didn’t regret “their agreeable willingness to oblige my ex-Cavalry father.” After listening to him about as far as Havre de Grace, they exchanged glances, then persuaded him that he should let them go first t