y had good reason to be, they were not willing to admit it. In later life Arnold professed not to recall the details of his first flight, though it seems extraordinary that he could have forgotten any part of such a crucial incident in his life, When a man took off in an airplane in 1911, he was doing something only a few dozen people had done before him. And he was entrusting his life to a machine that was not much more trustworthy than a tiger.  What information we have about Arnold's first fight comes from his first log.’ He and Welsh were aloft for seven minutes and the air was “rough”; Arnold did not touch the controls. During the next eleven days, he and Welsh flew together twenty-eight times for a total of three hours and forty-eight minutes, an average of eight minutes per flight. On the third flight he was allowed to put his “hand on elevator,” and on the fourth, he “had charge of elevator part of time." Not until his ninth flight did he have charge of the warping lever part of the time. On the eleventh, he “handled levers nearly all of time.” On the twelfth, he began learning to land the plane, and on the nineteenth flight, he “landed without assistance.” From that flight onward, he was in charge of the aircraft. “I could fly! I was an aviator!” he later exclaimed.  He was ready at last to go up alone, but there was one irritating aspect to that. Tommy Milling had soloed a few days ahead of Arnold and considered himself slightly superior to Arnold asa “natural pilot,” a phrase much in use before pilots began talking about “flying by the seat of the pants.” For many years (even today in some circles), it was believed that a flier, like an athlete, had to have a certain instinct for the job, and that the best fiers were those with natural aptitude, those with so much  ve took them,” Sunday dinner id done was a hatsoever, two of Ohio had not  aerodynamics  anything but rying to outdo  ure. “The best  here was a ere on the , the even 1, but when  s different n