nd, In Europe, the  sermans were falling back on all fronts. Paris was liberated on August 25. On September 11, the first American patrols crossed the German border from newly ihenied Belgium. At the same time, Allied forces in Italy had advanced north of Florence. And on the eastern front, the Russians had pushed the Germans back to the Vistula and Narey rivers and the East Prussian  border. Though Germany might still be capable of local victories, it couldn't possibly win the war. ,  851 # HAP  Arnold began thinking, therefore, about the postwar era, how the Air Forces should prepare for it, and how the Air Forces could best maintain a state of readiness during peacetime. In September, he again hired California Institute of Technology scientist Dr. Theodor von Karman, this time to head a committee that would work out some answers to long-range problems, He made it clear to von Karman that he didn’t want the Air Forces ever again to be caught unprepared, as it had been in 1939 and 1940,  “We have won this war,” he told von Karman, “and 1 am no longer interested in it. I do not think we should spend time debating whether we obtained the victory by sheer power or by some qualitative superiori- ty, Only one thing should concern us. What is the future of air power and aerial warfare? What is the bearing of the new inventions such as jet  propulsion, rockets, radar and other electronic devices?  The jet fighter plane, plans for which he had brought back from England early in the war, had been manufactured by Bell Aircraft and was now undergoing extensive testing. It was America’s first jet airplane. ‘Arnold had also directed Gen. Grandison Gardner at the Eglin Field, Florida, proving grounds to build a prototype of an American version of the rocket-powered buzz bomb with whic h the Germans were terrorizing London.” And though he didn't mention it to von Karman, he was aware that the United States at that moment was engaged in the development of an atomic weapon that, if