h an infatuation for him and ask her daddy to help get him for her. To save himself from such a possible fate, it would be sensible to find a means of escape from Fort McKinley, and eventually he did.  When an opportunity came to join a military mapping detail under Capt. Arthur S. Cowan of the Signal Corps, Arnold quickly seized it. The duty promised to be only temporary and the Signal Corps had none of the glamor of the Cavalry, but at least it was one tentative step away from the Infantry. His well-known dislike of the Infantry may even have been what got him the assignment. Lt. Col. Charles E. Nathan, his commanding officer, could have offered it to any of the lieutenants.  Many of them would have considered it an experience potentially valuable to their careers. Yet the old colonel, without mentioning it to anyone else, simply called Arnold over to him and said, “There's a chance here for a second lieutenant to go on mapping duty.”” Arnold was so excited by the prospect he wasted no time wondering whether the colonel was taking advantage of an opportunity to get rid of him. Captain Cowan's group was engaged in mapping the entire island of Luzon. They moved from one campsite to another in the “bosky” (as the  jungle was called), hacking their way through the dense, tangled  vegetation, breathing the thick, wet, heavy air, and living in tents. They would place a triangulation point on the highest possible ground, survey and map the terrain around it, then hack their way to the next hilltop and begin again.  After several months of this rugged detail, Arnold was as lean and hard as he had ever been. He was also, though perhaps not consciously, beginning to accept some of the values his father had preached to him  Thomas M. Coffey * 32  callee conspired, was to visit other officers when they were out, since the card-leaving was sufficient in itself to fulfill the ritual obligation.  Though it was an easy life it had several drawbacks, the most depressing of which w