arnings ($116.66 base pay plus  a the jungle, he had saved enough money to afford a leisurely trip » New York the long way around the world, via Hong Kong, ore, Suez, Alexandria, Cairo, Genoa, Lucerne, and Paris.’* It was accident that he planned to stop in Lucerne. He had heard from hat Mrs. Sidney Pool was spending the summer in a hotel on the th four of her children, including Eleanor.  1 June 19, 1909, he boarded the S.S. Grosse Kurfuerst for the long , during which he was to encounter, in addition to several British *rman officers also returning home: an Italian count who hated a; two “red-light ladies” from Singapore who were prepared to erybody; a Dutch father who watchfully made certain they didn’t und to loving his son; and a brother and sister so inseparable the aptain suspected them of being something else. For a young man rnold, it was an eye  unsophisticated as pening trip, but he was  pressed by the civilians and their bizarre behavior than he was by tish and German officers, whose daily arguments, reflecting the ation of attitudes in Europe, made him realize that the possibility eat war was very real.  very time the British and German officers met in the ship's ig room or on deck,” he recalled, “little tensions would occur. The w months had seen the Bosnia-Herzegovina ferment and other 1s enflaming the European crisis, with England and France sermany and Austria-  vely engaged on the side of Russia against ry." The Germans would “bawl out toasts and songs” in the salon and the British would show their discomfort “because the ; Germans’ were making a scene.” At night, when both sides meet on deck, trying to escape the stifling heat of the staterooms, irguments would become serious and ominous. “After two or irinks, the Englishmen became as rude as the Germans. Every- tnew a war was coming and both British and German knew he t lose it. Every phase of the thing was discussed and hashed over except the fact that the United States might be a factor.  © the