use he intended to insist that North Africa be invaded first, and many of the American bombers assigned to the Eighth Air  Thomas M. Coffey 274  Thus confronted, Towers, with aplomb, said “Wh:  At the close of this meeting, Churchill and Arnold for a half hour in the garden, after which Arnold note may be mistaken but I believe that we can sell our Arnold had that ingenuous American habit of exp argument openly from the start, he seemed to feel equally direct. In time he would come to know them t  He noticed a great change in London. “People are harried, listless ones I saw last year. They have pep and in life. The city is cleaned up. Bomb marks are rapid He went to visit Eaker’s command at High Wycombe an place.” Eaker seemed ready to fly as soon as he got son his first airdromes were nearing completion  At an air ministry conference on the twenty-cig more trouble with the U.S. Navy than with the Br Towers, whom he had genuinely liked ever since t students at the Wright brothers’ flying school, annoyec meeting when he said the Navy could send no help for | command. The Navy had “too many other activities a And when the question of providing more transport suggested that Arnold stop B-17 production at the Dor plant and build cargo planes instead. When one of Pc him what the Navy was willing to give up to help the ‘Nothing the Navy could give up would help.” Arno this. It seemed to him that the Army Air Forces “was everything to everybody.” From then on, he decided, much more hard-boiled attitude  While he was having his troubles with Towers, preparing to do a little more work on him. Because he they were very conscious of being the receivers, they ungracious. But Portal did point out that it would be best before the Eighth Air Force ¢  uld operate a whereas he had trained pilots who could fly all av bombers immediately. If Arnold would send the heay R.A.F., he would be willing, he said, to give them American units were ready for them. It sounded proposal, but Arnold