onally, the Air Forces were still part of the Army and the air commander. But while the dismal lack of air performance on December 7 and 8 may not have embarrassed Arnold, it did infuriate him, “I had always believed that our airmen  would fight it out in the a he said. “They should never have been caught flat-footed on the ground. It was a very sad blow to me.”  More important, it demonstrated a problem he would have to cope with throughout the war. It was his job to put those hard-earned planes and crews together. But what was the point of sending air units overseas to fight if ground force generals like Walter Short in Hawaii and Douglas MacArthur in the Philippines allowed them to sit idle and be destroyed on the ground? MacArthur on Dec ember 10 sent him an effusive radiogram about the gallantry of the air crews in the Philippines. “Their losses were due entirely to the overwhelming superiority of enemy  245  destination. WI mandated islar they would fin« Field on Oahu At midnig B-17s, Arnold morning they f his father. Afi property ofa fi there. Before n had not, so th caretaker and house, includin his guests. Whi the caretaker’s Douglas, 1 suggested that you play the ra When the came running « The caretz while you-all wi Beebe reca silence. Dougla looked off int Roosevelt some They hurr headed for thi March Field, th tion and confus he fly to San F; Gen. John L. D more phone ca and Beebe agai then Washingt hours to fly acre  sleep on the wa  Thomas M, Coffey 246  force,” he said, “No unit could have done better No item of loss can properly be attributed to neglect or lack of care. . , . You may take pride in their conduct.” But he did not explain why, despite adequate knowledge of what had happened in Hawaii several hours earlier, he had allowed so many planes to be sitting in tidy rows on the airfields when the Japanese attackers arrived. Arnold called the Philippine air commander, Gen. Lewis H. Brereton. He couldn't explain it either. He said they didn’t hav