military discipline,” the future of men like Hap Arnold and others who had supported him, as well as the future of air power in America, looked bleak. The decision so depressed Arnold that he considered leaving the Army to take a job as president of the newly formed Pan American Airways.” While this possibility was pending, however, he continued to campaign for a stronger air force. Even after Mitchell had been suspended, and the General Staff had pointedly forbidden the young air zealots to pursue their public agitation, Arnold, with several associates, kept up a steady,  surreptitious flow of air-power propaganda to friendly « congressmen and  5 * HAP  newsmen."® These associates included Maj. Millard F. “Miff" Harmon, Capt. Ira C. Eaker, Lt. David Lingle, and, not surprisingly, Maj. H. A. “Bert” Dargue, the same man with whom Arnold had teamed, to their mutual detriment, nine years earlier in San Diego. (Partly through  Arnold’s efforts, Dargue had been reinstated in the Air Service. In early Februar  the cry for more air power was continuing unabated in the press, and  1926, when War Department officials noticed that  when it became apparent that congressmen were still being bombarded with letters in favor of a separate air force, Secretary of War Dwight F. rvice, Maj. Gen. Mason M. Patrick,  Davis ordered the chief of the Air to conduct an investigation and find out who the agitators were. The investigation didn’t take long: Patrick knew the men behind the mailings because until the Mitchell trial he had been abetting them. It was imperative now that he take some action, at least against the principal offenders, who were Arnold and Dargue.  Patrick was reluctant to punish Dargue, who had been his personal pilot and was one of his most reliable aides, but he wasn’t at all hesitant about punishing Arnold, with whom he had never been on friendly terms. One day in 1925, he had become so angry at his information officer that he had thrown a paperweight at him." Gene