inent that first the press and then other air enthusiasts had begun to solicit his opinions  One day in the summer of 1912, “a sharp-faced, cager young captain” attached to the General Staff came to see him. Though Arnold didn’t know it at the time, this man had expressed in the Cavalry Journal in 1906 the outlandish opinion that during the years ahead, “conflicts no doubt will be carried out in the air, on the surface of the earth and water, and under the water.” Despite such views he had become, at the age of thirty-two, the youngest officer ever appointed to the General Staff, because his abilities were undeniably extraordinary. He had just returned from Alaska, where he had supervised the construction of a telegraph network, but that was not the subject of his visit to Arnold. From Alaska he had made a short trip to Japan, where he had studied the Japanese army, to the extent that he was permitted, and had learned that the Japanese air force already had ten planes, which was more than the United States could boast. His experiences in Japan, plus his expectations about coming developments in aircraft capability, had prompted him to embark on research for a paper he intended to submit to the General Staff about the military future of aviation. Arnold may have been  Since his visitor had never flown an airplane astonished by his presumption, but he was also impressed by his knowledge. The man wasn’t really interested in carrying on a conversa- tion. Mostly he expounded facts, opinions, and dreams about aviation, pausing only occasionally to ask for specific data, and before he was through, he had managed to create the impression that he, the ground- ling, was the true air expert, and that Arnold, the aviator, would do well  Thomas M, Coffey 6  occupation, While the Army had been relatively fort) suffering only two casualties (Selfridge and Kelly), ¢ falling to their deaths in ever-increasing numbers. T! just two weeks after Wilbur Wright died of typhoid fe before A