ad all but abandoned hope, Then  suddenly they came upon the fliers, still alive but barely so,  Thomas M. Coffey * 2  Simmons jumped in fright and Arnold, laughing, said, “You thought I was gone, didn’t you?”  He had known for some time he might go at any moment—each new attack further weakened the tissues of his heart—yet he seldom talked about the prospect of death, and he refused to sit still in an effort to preserve his strength. He had said one day to his son, Bruce, “It's hell to be sick. They want to keep me alive by wrapping me in cotton and placing me in a glass case, but I'll be goddamned if I'll let them.” * He continued his writing and he continued as best he could to look after his property. The day after his telegram to the Britannica, he walked down the hill to Simmons’s house to outline the work he planned for the next morning. The two of them would go into a fairly level part of the hilly land where something needed to be done  “What time?” Simmons asked  “About six or six-thirty.”  “My God, General, tomorrow's Sunday, Can't we wait till eight or eight-thirty?”  No. General Arnold was not accustomed to starting any day that late. But this time the question was to become moot. Early the next morning he awoke and said something to his wife, who was still half  asleep. A few minutes later he was dead at the age of sixty-four  During forty-one years of active service in the U.S. Army and Air Force, he had compiled a record unparalleled in military history. Universally acknowledged as the father of the modern American Air Force, he had taken charge of the then Army Air Cor ps in 1938, when it was a puny collection of twenty thousand men and a few hundred less-than-battleworthy planes. By 1944, under the whip of his compel- ling, relentless, and often unreasonable dynamism, it had grown into an organization of 2.4 million men and eighty thousand aircraft. Never before or since has a military machine of such size and technical com- plexity been created in