s a backup force; and on the twenty-fifth, he — jj:jhiwithtli Marshall that the Navy's broad strategy was a northwesterly adv jyp\ijiiluiyid Marshall liked this idea but prop jjyjinivlilallt MacArthur rather than Nimitz as its commander.’* The Navy was |ipjqynlibi  through the Solomons.  enthusiastic about letting MacArthur command anything. Three ¢ jj;){y9:iih later MacArthur warned Marshall that the Navy intended to asst j\yn/ynltl complete control in the Pacific, and that he should beware of K pjjiviihloliyl  Finally Marshall settled this unseemly squabbling by deciding that y)j4j4i/'iail  Navy would invade Guadalcanal and Tulagi avon tbat MacArthur was not an easy man with whom to argue. On jiyji}hiiysth  Arnold's old colleagues, George Brett, had been finding that out s jy{/) yp  i March, when Arnold made him Southwest Pacific air commander, jji//jiiujuyl  MacArthur-Brett bickering became so serious that Marshall sent an jp li Forces colonel on his staff, Samuel E. Anderson, to find out what happening between them. When Anderson returned, he was summ« to a meeting with Marshall and Arnold.  “Shall I relieve Brett?” Marshall asked.  Glancing at Arnold, whom he understood to be a close frien qy  vaqtai) Mis i  nti Brett, Anderson swallowed hard, then said, “Yes, sir.” tude Marshall asked, “Why? fennel  “Because, sir, as long as Brett is there, you won't have any coog (ibirdihelit tion between ground and air. And | don't think you plan to re jjiliynlibiiey  General MacArthur.”*” cay plea  281 * HAP  outside the Western Hemisphere. And the Air Service Command was “in business,” flying mostly supplies and equipment to such places as Iceland, Greenland, and the Caribbean. But there was so much duplica tion of work and the two agencies got along so poorly with each other that Arnold decided to consolidate them, by stages, into one large military airline.  To command the operation he appointed a man of proven ability, Col. Harold George, and at the end of April he made