at suddenly had to assume life-and-death responsibilities all over the world. While he was fencing with the British and with the U.S. Navy, he was also involved in the much more immediate and desperate problem of getting emergency planes and supplies to the Philippines, where MacArthur and his men were trying, without much success, to beat back the invading Japanese. Shortly before Christmas, Arnold and Marshall dispatched 125 pursuit planes on two ships by way of Australia. They also diverted 15 B-24s to Manila by air. They weren't confident that any of these planes would reach their destination but they had to make every possible effort to save the Philippines. At the same time, Hawaii,  Panama, Alaska, and all the continental American commands were pleading for more planes. Arnold could only tell them to get in line and wait  The problem of putting the right men in the right jobs was another increasing headache because, as Arnold had indicated to Eaker, there weren't enough outstanding men in the small officer cadre of the peacetime Air Corps to fill all the vital posts created by the war. As time would tell, he had, in fact, an amazing number of remarkable men at his disposal. But he also had some deadwood. He was aware that some of  the men he had appointed to important positions before the war,  253 * HAP  especially some of the men his own age, long-time friends and associates, lacked the drive and the dynamism to handle big jobs under wartime conditions. He knew he would have to relieve some of them, and just in case he might forget to do so, Marshall kept reminding him.'*  After the war, Marshall said, “My main difficulties [with Arnold] came from the fact that he had a very immature staff. They were not immature in years, because they were pretty old but. . . they were not trained at that kind of staff work and they were busy taking stands . . . about promotions. They were already getting more rapid promotions than anybody else. . . . But his staff was alw