ident that  the Air Corps was capable of handling the assignment. Arnold was to be responsible for carrying the mail in the western section of the country,  which would include the routes connecting San Diego, Los Angeles, San  Francisco, Portland, and Seattle, plus the routes between Salt Lake City and all of those cities. And he would be expected to start operations nine days later, on February 19.  Arnold told Spaatz he would get right to work on the job even though he knew he was flirting with disaster. As he later said, “My pilots {in the West] were mostly Reserve officers, none of whom, owing to the War Department policy of turning over Reserve officers in a squadron at the rate of 25 or 30 percent a year, had had two years’ service. Very few of the ‘regular’ civilian air mail routes had been flown over by these officers. They had none of the special airline instruments; they must fly in whatever planes we had, including trainers. There was not  especially in the case of the open-cockpit fighter types that had to be flown—even enough space for the mail bags.”  The plan was to have the Air Corps begin with fourteen of the twenty-six nationwide routes the airlines had flown. For this purpose, the Army would provide 122 planes and 200 pilots. But none of the planes was properly equipped. At that moment, the Air Corps owned only 274 directional gyros and 460 artificial horizons, very few of which were actually mounted on airplanes. As for radios, the corps had 172 transmitter-receivers, none usable at ranges beyond thirty miles.  On February 16, Foulois compounded his problem by telling the House Post Office Committee, “We have assigned to this work the most experienced pilots in the Army Air Corps. We have had a great deal of experience in flying at night, and in flying in fogs and bad weather, in blind flying and in flying under all conditions.”  Actually, only 122 of the 262 pilots who were destined to fly the mail had more than two years’ experience. Only thir