rces, or to the concept of a separate air force? It was something that should not be left to chance.  Spaatz suggested to Arnold that he go right back to Washington because he was the man to lead the campaign for a separate air force, and with the advent of a new administration, this was the time to lay the foundation for it. Even working part-time, Spaatz believed, Arnold could do the job better than anyone else.**  Arnold reacted to this with a surprising show of self-preservation. Earlier that day he had arnounced to Iva Eaker that he would have to come home and run the Air Forces for him, and that he was to bring along Fred Anderson, Doolittle, Cabell, Kuter, and Vandenberg, all of  mas M, Coffey * 364  whom were then in Europe. He was thus acknowledging that he could no longer handle the kind of burden to which he had been accustomed. His response to Spaatz’s suggestion indicated that he hadn't yet lost respect for his most recent heart attack. “I am of the opinion that I would only make an invalid of myself if I returned before Eaker and the men whom I am getting from Spaatz. I realize that there is much spade-work to be done right now—with a new President, and the war in Germany coming to a close. I cannot see my way clear to deliberately ruin myself again physically, when there is so little chance of permanent change in Air Force activities.”  He seemed also, in that observation, to lack confidence that a campaign for a separate air force would succeed. But he wanted his men to fight for it anyway  By this time, Arnold was tentatively planning to continue on to the Pacific instead of returning home from Europe, but when Marshall learned about this plan, he sent a cable, on April 17, objecting to it:  I am rather depressed at seeing you start on another of your enuous trips, this time carrying you around the world, It may demonstrate to the Army and to the public that you certainly are not on the retired list but also it may result in your landing there, I wi