, King wrote a surprisingly mild answer. Perhaps Arnold misunderstood the intended mission of these heavy bombers They were needed in northern climes because seaplanes didn’t work in icy seas. As to whether the Navy had a right to heavy bombers, he said quite reasonably that “no arbitrary limitations as to the type of aircraft or weapon should restrict the effectiveness of either the Army Air Forces or Naval aviation.” And the submarine menace was so serious the Navy urgently needed the planes. In light of this, he hoped Arnold would  reconsider.  Thomas M. Coffey 260  February 23, 1942, two weeks after the first formal meeting of the Joint Chiefs, Eisenhower wrote: “Admiral King is an arbitrary, stubborn type  with too much brain and a tendency toward bullying his juniors. But I  think he wants to fight, which is vastly encouraging.”  King did indeed want to fight. The great fighting record of the Navy in World War II is partly a reflection of his insistent personality But unfortunately for Marshall and Arnold, who had to cope with him, he sometimes seemed as willing to fight the Army as he was to fight the Japanese. And he was so eager to fight the Japanese that he sometimes seemed unable to understand or accept the Allied grand strategy, agreed upon by Roosevelt and Churchill, to hold off the Japanese while concentrating on the defeat of Germany  King’s most formidable aide on the staff of the Joint Chiefs, Rear Adm. Charles M. “Savvy” Cooke, who was also chief of naval war plans, often acted as if he had been made in King’s image and likeness. Orvil Anderson, the Air Forces chief of plans, could not get Cooke to recognize him as an equal on the staff  Cooke, referring to Arnold, said to Anderson one day, “Where do you get the queer idea that your man is a chief of staff ?”  “By edict,” Anderson answered. “By some new terms the president made up.”  “He's not a chief of staff,” Cooke insisted. “He is definitely—and you might as well face up to the fact—he is subor