's meeting with von Karman was more urgent. The  did some experimental work to advance the art of flight. Did von Karman have any ideas in that direction?  “In my opinion,” von Karman said, “the first step is to build the right wind tunnel. It should be large enough to contain a full-scale airplane engine installation and should be capable of generating winds of at least four hundred miles per hour.”  Seeing the quizzical expression on Arnold’s face, von Karman added, “Of course, a tunnel of this size will require forty thousand horsepower. Maybe you don’t wish to invest in such a large and revolutionary piece of equipment?”  “On the contrary,” Arnold said, “that’s exactly what we do want, the highest combination of speed and size. It’s about time the Air Corps stopped begging to be allowed to catch up to other agencies and started taking the lead.”  Von Karman returned to California and with Arnold’s authoriza- tion went right to work designing a twenty-foot, 40,000-horsepower wind tunnel, which was soon built at Wright Field and was the first of its kind. When it was built, its first problem was already waiting: there was an acute need, as Lindbergh had already observed,’ for the dev elopment of better and more powerful aircraft engines  Early in 1940, General Marshall called General Arnold and several senior Air Corps staff officers into his office to hear a presentation of the  209 HAP  Air Corps expansion plan on which General Andrews (as assistant chief for operations and training) and several members of his staff had been working. Arnold and most of his men were familiar with the provisions of the plan because there had been a lot of give and take between them and the Andrews staff during its development. It was basically an Air Corps dream of its own expansion. Andrews was an Air Corps man and so was Major Kuter, the project officer. But while the plan contained few if any surprises for the Air men, Marshall himself had not yet seen it, and without his appro