ecretary of the navy, asked for a copy of this report, which he then showed to Patterson. As a result, Patterson called L  »vett to Washington and Stimson hired him.*  Lovett and Arnold got along well from the beginning. Arnold said later he found in Lovett “a man who possessed the qualities in which I was weakest, a partner and teammate of tremendous sympathy, and of calm and hidden force. When I became impatient, intolerant, and would rant around, fully intending to tear the War and Navy Departments to pieces, Bob Lovett would know exactly how to handle me. He would say with a quiet smile, ‘Hap, you’re wonderful! How I wish I had your pep and vitality! Now . . . let's get down and be practical.’ And I would come back to earth with a bang.”*  Lovett, recalling their association, has said, “I'd see that Hap would be very bouncy, then he'd have fits of depression, He'd think things weren't going well. He needed help. He was a young boy in many ways. Not sophisticated. His great gifts were not adequately appreciated because there was quite a little jealousy among the other services. The Air [Corps] had grown rapidly. Hap showed a great deal of self restraint in some ways, but he was flamboyant and aggressive. [He had] enthu siasm. [To him there] wasn't anything that couldn't be done.”  There were things, however, that Arnold didn’t like to do, and one of them was to handle the tedious duties of administration. His vision of administration was to think of something that ought to be done and tell somebody to go do it right away. He could not comprehend or tolerate delay. Concepts like definition of duties, coordination of projects, standardization of procedures, and communication through chains of command might be desirable but they took too much time, Whatever he wanted done, he wanted done immediately, and if that necessitated a violation of orderly process, so be it. Through no fault of his, the Air  Corps administrative setup was so unwieldy that he almost had to ig