ed that be a pleasant change from her life in Ardmore.®  The unfortunate Betty was never asked if she would like company in Washington; she simply had to make the best of it, despite the fact that  would  she was always less than eager to see other women take an interest in “Harley,” as she still called him. Much to Arnold's embarrassment, she hadn't yet been able to relinquish her close attachment to him and her feeling that his welfare was her responsibility.  When Betty and Eleanor arrived, he fortunately had something more positive to report about his career than his retirement from flying—he had been promoted on April 10 to first lieutenant. As for his  69 * HAP  being grounded, he did not dwell on that, though he did tell them he was engaged in the task of closing College Park. Each morning he would take them out into the beautiful Maryland countryside in an Army automobile and, when they reached the field, leave them to amuse themselves while he went about his dutie Then after lunch they would drive back into the city and go to ball games. Eleanor could see that he was “very discouraged about the future of aviation,” but she didn’t seem to realize that much of his pessimism was a personal matter. It is possible that on this occasion he didn’t even inform her that he was no longer a flier. In later life, she had the impression that he had done some flying at College Park while she was there. The record does not substantiate this. She also, in later life, believed that he had retired from flying after he became engaged to her because “they wouldn't allow the fliers to marry in those days.” This suggests that he had spared her the details of his decision to quit flying.  Pessimistic though he was about flying, Arnold was still full of enthusiasm about Eleanor, who had often been in his thoughts during the last six years. Sensing her awakened interest in him, he felt encouraged to court her now, but with sister Betty in attendance, the courtship had to be circums