ed off slightly and he wanted everyone to know he wouldn't tolerate it. “I hope I needled some of (their) complacency and self-satisfaction out of them,” he said in a letter to Gene Beebe, who was now commanding a bomb group in China. To this he added a wholly superfluous afterthought. “I guess I don’t have to explain to you that I'm personally never satisfied.”  His doctors were trying now with limited success to keep him from working full days, Col. Fred M. Dean, a fighter pilot with such a distinguished record in Africa that he became a member of Arnold’s council in July, noticed that he was still coming into the office at 7:30 am, but he would try to leave at 3:00 p.m. He also tried to nap for twenty minutes after lunch each day. Nevertheless, he found time to read twenty to fifty cables from the various theaters of action each morning, He digested and answered sever al memoranda daily, attended meetings of the Joint Chiefs, consulted with Marshall, talked to an endless stream of visitors, wrote a dozen or more letters (usually with staff help), and discussed a bew ildering variety of projects with members of his council and his staff? The one thing he didn't do was conduct formal staff meetings. He had sat through so many such meetings during his career he knew very well they were a waste of time, He preferred to work directly on each problem with the man he had assigned to solve it  When one of his staff members brought him a proposal it had better be short and to the point “He would read it while [you] were standing there talking to him,” Dean later recalled. He would be talking about some other subject as he read, but if the staff officer thought he was wandering from the subject and tried to bring him back to it by mentioning something in the brief, he would say, “You said that here.” Though it might not seem so, he had been reading while he was talking He had, Dean soon learned, “a tremendous fac ulty for being able to do more than one thing at a time,”  3