er B-29 engines had caught fire, though few fatalities had resulted. In addition, the fire-control and pressuriza- tion systems weren't yet functioning reliably, One man had been blown out of a gun blister by excess pressure at 25,000 feet. The radar bombing system was complicated to operate and often inaccurate. And the electrically controlled bomb-bay doors seemed to open and close at their own convenience."  Arnold had once promised the president he would have the plane in combat by the beginning of 1944, but the bewildering succession of problems had forced him to renege on that promise. After waiting as  long as possible, he had written a (for him) humiliating memorandum to Roosevelt on October 11, 1943  In connection with the bombing of Japan from China by B-29s, I regret exceedingly to have to inform you that there has been a holdup in production of engines. It looks now as if it will be impossible to get the required number of B-29s together in China to start bombing before the first of March, and with the possibility of  334  335 * HAP  not getting them there before the first of April. At this writing I expect to have 150 B-29s in China by March Ist, of which 100 can be used against Japan  Roosevelt had been deeply offended by this news. “The worst thing,” he wrote in an October 15 letter to Marshall, “is that we are falling down on our promises to China every single time, We have not fulfilled one of them yet. I do not see why we have to use B-29s, We have several other types of bombing planes.”  The president should have known why no other bomber would do. Only the B-29 would be able to reach Japan from the nearest bases China could possibly supply. His annoyance at their delayed arrival gave xen. K, B. Wolfe, who was coordinating the project, he said, “I have told the  Arnold further incentive to hasten their delivery, In a memo to C  President that this will be started on March 1, See that it is done.”  Unfortunately, the job hadn't been that simple. In