spect of life in Washington: “It had always seemed to me—and I knew the place pretty well—that the honking traffic jams, the waiting in anterooms, clerks colliding with their stacks of papers in the endless  corridors, the sharp tongues at cocktail parties confiding what they seldom really knew, were not merely the Face of Washington, but much of its Inside Story. Friends or no friends, I thought, it was no place for me;"'°  He had an exceptional flair for description, but in this event at least,  very little flair for prophecy. It would be ten years almost to the day  before he finally escaped Washington for good  For only a few hours did he manage to escape the Washington social life. On the telephone that night, General Westover informed him that one of his duties would be to represent the chief at official social functions." Two days later, the Arnolds were invited to a white-tie affair at the home of General Craig.  “What are you going to do about that?” Bee asked Hap.  “I won't go,” he said.  “You can’t turn down Malin Craig.”  “No, I guess I can't,” he admitted. For the first time in his life he went out and bought white tie and tails. He was destined to give the outfit a lot of wear.  In his new job, Arnold found himself dealing with matters a good deal more complex than the operational procedures he had Leet helping to develop as a wing commander in the G.H.Q. Air Force. “The War Department, Congress, appropriations, public opinion, the defini- tion of our program when nobody—not even the G.H Q. Air Force —had any real program at all; the headaches of ‘defending’ our accident rate against the newspaper agitauion begun at the time of the air mail disasters back in 1934, all became my problems as Assistant Chief of the Air Corps.” x  In addition, there was the problem of conflicting loyalties. He felt “a certain amount of embarrassment” because he was now “Y anged with the Air Corps Headquarters, across the fence from the G.H.Q. Air Force. Despite his previou