e saison. By thst, Amold realized how cleverly Marsal and he ad been likeredout of Bolero The appatent Bish concurrence nthe Bolero plan to hunch a massive a offensive agaist Germany and then invade the continent at east by the spring of 1948 vas fading avay as Presiden Roose Hsened to Winston Churchill's instence-on a por operation under the code name  5 * HAP  | of this was carefully guarded informa- mgressmen and other influential people ht even have the power to cut Air Forces  aunching the heavy blows he had been  Arnold began passing it on to Eaker, though he had only one group of B-17s, 1,  lin his diary this pressure from Arnold. led the first American offensive thrust »ombing of the railroad yards at Rouen. “he G ied into autumn, Eaker got a few more  mans hardly bothered to oppose  a massive air offensive against Germany least until 1943.  need in June that the Navy, not MacAr- d the island-hopping offensive through + had reminded Marshall that the Navy ol of the European theater inasmuch as ya land war. Therefore the Army should e Pacific theater inasmuch as the Pacific ar. If the Army didn’t like that, he said, nsive without the Army’s help. In effect, hat. But as the Guadalcanal invasion day dn’t have enough aircraft, especially in riers if they were exposed to Japanese ild operate against other carriers in the ly vulnerable to land-based planes, most in carrier planes  y late July, had begun to demand planes en the Guadalcanal operation. When the on August 7, the Japanese, aware of its ounterattacked quickly, sank four U.S. can naval task force to retire, leaving the 1 the beaches. After three days of going it ommanded by Adm. Robert Ghormley, ng was to drag on for months. But when e planes to the South Pacific, he pointed  were already in that area, plus another  Thomas M. Coffey 284  “Torch”—an invasion of North Africa in the autumn of 1942. On July 22, Bolero was officially abandoned in favor of Torch. Then, on August 7, against Arnold’s advice, the