angar line when his  engine suddenly roared as if the throttle had been pushed full forward (an unlikely possibility under the circumstances) and the plane plunged to earth at maximum speed, killing both Rockwell and Scott. This was only one of many accidents Arnold knew about but was unable to explain. It was beginning to look as if airplanes, like people, had minds of their own and were subject to similar self-destructive urges.  None of this had any apparent effect on Arnold’s skill as a pilot or  * HAP  his enthusiasm for flying. He seemed able to suppress any misgivings about the fate that might await him if he continued to fly (misgivings held by most pilots of the time) by dreaming of the marvelous air age to which he was helping give birtt  Already he was beginning to envision big, fast airplanes that would carry passengers from city to city and, in time of wa  , dominate the battlefields with bombs and machine guns. (Milling and Chandler, at College Park, had already experimented successfully with the famous aerial machine gun invented by Col. Isaac N. Lewis, and though the War Department rejected it—because Ord- nance had already chosen the heavier Benet-Mercier mode  , ideal for ground operations, and saw no need to buy two kinds of machine guns—there was no doubt in Arnold’s mind that such weapons would soon have to be mounted on planes.) His vision of the future of aviation as well as his accomplishments—especially in setting altitude records —had made him so prominent that first the press and then other air enthusiasts had begun to solicit his opinions.  One day in the summer of 1912, “a sharp-faced, eager young captain” attached to the General Staff came to see him. Though Arnold didn’t know it at the time, this man had expressed in the Cavalry Journal in 1906 the outlandish opinion that during the years ahead, “conflicts no  doubt will be carried out in the air, on the surface of the earth and  water, and under the water.” Despite such views he had b