ed her assignment so zealously, in fact, that as the boys grew older she became protective, especially of Henry, to the point of being almost possessive, a circumstance from which he constantly struggled to free himself.)  In 1890, Dr. Arnold moved his family from the farm to a house in Ardmore, but he did not sever his association with the Pennsylvania Dutch farmers in the area. Each morning at five he would harness his horse, climb into his buggy, and begin his rounds of the farms in his territory, riding the back roads hour after hour to treat his patients, mostly Mennonites, who respected his medical skills even though,  following his father’s example, he had rejected their religion. At five in the evening, twelve hours after leaving home, he would return to the plain dinner his wife, Louise, had ready for him, then hurry into his crowded waiting room to treat more patients until eleven or even midnight.  The good doctor's only concession to the human need for pleasure came on Sundays, after the entire family returned home from the three-hour service at the Baptist Church in Ardmore. The Arnolds’ Sunday dinner was always a wholesome feast. But even that provided no more than a circumscribed pleasure for the children, who were allowed to speak (after carefully laying down knife and fork) only when their father addressed them directly; and perhaps even less pleasure for his wife, since he refused to eat what he called store-bought food. She had to churn the butter, bake the bread, and each autumn preserve a winter’s-worth of vegetables from the garden she had to cultivate. Unul her sons were old enough, she also had to chop the wood for her iron  cook stove.  Mrs. Louise Arnold, who came from a neighboring Gladwyne farm family, the Harleys (which accounts for young Henry's middle name), was also a product of the Mennonites. Her parents were still members of the Church of the Brethren (sometimes known as “Dunkards” or “Dunkers” because they practiced baptism by imm