rization to provide the money for it. But within a year or so, he would have to have a steady stream of pilots, and there was no time to waste  The suggestion he made was as risky as it was unorthodox. “You can borrow the money, ¢  an't you, until I get a congressional appropriation? Before the afternoon was over, he had talked them into this chancy proposition, And before World War II was over, 190,000 young Air Corps pilots (including the author of this book) had undergone their primary flight training at civilian flying schools.  197 * HAP  Still without sufficient funds or authorization, Arnold also began ordering primary trainer planes from companies like Ryan, Fairchild, Steerman, and Stinson. From Vultee he ordered the basic trainer, BT-13, which was so noisy it was soon dubbed the “Vultee Vibrator.” And from North American he ordered the advanced trainer, the AT-6. These were to become standard Air Corps training planes until the end of World War IL.  In 1939, he also encouraged plans for the development of the Consolidated Vultee B-24 “Liberator,” a four-engine long-range bomber that was expected to out-perform the B-17; and the Lockheed P-38 “Lightning,” a beautiful, twin-engine, double-fuselage fighter that looked like two planes embracing each other.  While Arnold in Washington was scrambling for the best men and equipment he could find, some of the Air Corps’ brightest strategists, notably the members of the Air Corps Board and the faculty of the Air Corps Tactical School at Maxwell Field, were wrestling with the question of how to approach an anticipated air war whose exact nature would not be known until it happened. Arnold’s principal role in their delibera- tions was to state the problems, ask the questions. Thereafter, he encouraged these strategists—men like Harold George, Kenneth Walk- er, Orvil Anderson, Edgar Sorenson, and Mack Snyder—to express  their most critical views on “any question that was asked, any problem that was posed.” Anderson re