uld be a great help to Russia. What was needed, he said, was the invasion of northern France (code-named Overlord), with a smaller, diversionary landing in southern France.'°  Whether the British liked it or not, the Americans were now determined to press forward with the invasion. President Roosevelt was so set on the project that he had already decided without argument from Churchill that George Marshall would command it. Marshall had done such a splendid job in Washington, coordinating every aspect of the American war effort throughout the world, that Roosevelt felt he deserved a chance to prove his greatness in the field as well. But opposition to Marshall's removal from Washington had come from surprising sources. The Army and Navy Journal and the Army and Navy Register, both highly respected within the services, had opposed it on the mistaken understanding that it would be a demotion for Marshall (Actually, Roosevelt intended that Marshall keep his title as chief of staff.) Then General Pershing wrote to Roosevelt that the transfer of Marshall would be a “very grave error.”  To Pershing Roosevelt wrote, “I think it is only fair to give George a chance in the field—and because of the nature of the job we shall still have the benefit of his strategical ability. The best way I can express It Is to tell you that I want George to be the Pershing of the Second World War—and he cannot be that if we keep him her  Thomas M. Coffey * 328  Roosevelt simply ignored other opponents of the idea. But then opposition came from two people he must have expected to support him—General Arnold and Admiral King. They were against moving Marshall to Europe, not because they begrudged him a chance to show his brilliance in the field, but because they would both miss his brilliance in Washington. While they were in Egypt, Roosevelt and Arnold, on November 24, went out to see the Sphinx together. By this time, the president may have been aware of Arnold's feelings in the matter. As the