und the table, asking each man. When he added up and averaged their replies, the estimate came to a mere 1,500.  The figure shocked him, He began breaking it down into various areas or possible war theaters. How many planes would be needed, he asked, to defend the Philippines? Hawaii? Alaska? Panama? The figure began to expand, but even then, the highest estimate he could get from  his staff members was 7,500 planes. Already thinking in much larger  terms himself, he left in his office the easel on which he had written the figure. In the years that followed, he would point to it whenever one of his men seemed to be “thinking in small terms.”  One man who knew how to think in large terms without Arnold's prodding was George Marshall, assistant chief of staff until October 15, 1938, and thereafter deputy chief of staff. Marshall's influence within the General Staff had increased quickly since his assignment to it the previous summer because the quiet force of his personality and the sharpness of his reasoning were difficult to resist. Impressed by Arnold’s arguments about air power, he was already telling his economy-minded General Staff colleagues that the B-12s and B-18s they had bought to save money would not be good enough to put up against planes then being built in Europe, that they would have to start buying B-17s despite their higher cost. How many B-17s? He didn’t know, and when he tried to find the data needed to make an estimate, he discovered that the General Staff had no such information.* So he called Arnold and together they worked out what Arnold described as “an entire air plan for the War Department,” a plan that, with refinements and modifi- cations, became the basis for setting World War II requirements.  The details of this plan were reflected in a report by Arnold to Assistant Secretary of War Louis Johnson on October 27, 1938, and a memorandum from Arnold to Tooey Spaatz (then executive officer of the  ».H.Q. Air Force's 2nd Wing but soon to bec