ed his crusade for a separate air force by sending a paper to President Roosevelt, deploring the fact that Air Corps operational units had been subjected to the chief of Air Corps (Arnold). As a result, he charged, “convenience of administration always took precedence over efficiency in operation.” What was needed, he wrote, was “a United States Air Corps within the  War Department, with a Chief of Staff for Air reporting direct to the  Secretary of War. Four weeks later, in a letter to Andrews, Knerr stated that Arnold  was “furious” about this paper, as he may very well have been Though the president apparently gave it some attention, nothing was done about it. It could hardly have bzen forgotten, however, when, in May 1941, Andrews wrote to George Brett, then acting Air Corps chief under Arnold, asking him to reactivate Knerr as a brigadier general and  Thomas M. Coffey 34 kn)  Britain sought territorial aggrandizement, and that both nations, aft ‘laulu  the war, would foster the basic freedoms of all people, vanquished _ tliwskiinual  well as victors  hoy vicnca While the president and the prime minister worked on the wordit 'bisht subd of the charter, their top generals and admirals conferred about mo diuliitlia concrete military possibilities. Once again Arnold was disappointed | alll} the narrowness of British thinking and appalled by the number | tiliituhhl aircraft and amount of materiel they were seeking from America. Thy ‘liuliym wanted four thousand heavy bombers at a time when the United Stat ‘bliin, was producing only five hundred a month. Yet they didn’t seem to ha tibidam any long-range plan that anticipated the defeat of Germany or even  Wiihiryniy invasion of the European continent. "i i ‘British long-range plan,” Arnold wrote in his diary, “is to kee !illlwivainy giving as little as possible in remote areas where they can meet Germay ‘itn on even terms, always hoping for a break—a miracle—an intern !=tlimypi)p breakdown of [German] morale.” To Arn