, but as they flew south past Boston, ominous clouds gathered and rough weather closed in, forcing them to land at South Duxbury, near Plymouth, Early the next morning, after refilling the gas tanks and pumping the night's accumulation of water out of the floats,  55 # HAP  they taxied onto the bay, now glassy smooth, and turned into the gentle breeze to take off again for Bridgeport.  In retrospect, it appears that Arnold and Kirtland had too much faith in the plane. They were so sure of its lifting power that they had overloaded it with an anchor for water mooring, ropes, tools, and their own personal luggage, much of which they could have sent by land transport. The previous day, when they had taken off from Salem into a brisk wind, the plane had managed to lift this heavy load, but the wind was so gentle the next morning that they would need a long run to gain enough airspeed to lift them off the water—a longer run, as it hap- pened, than Arnold had anticipated. “We managed to get airborne but were headed directly toward the steeples of the town. I tried to turn; the  plane slipped, and we dropped into the water like a stone.”  One of the floats broke off on contact and one of the wings crumpled. Though Kirtland was hardly injured, Arnold, after scram- bling up onto the remaining wing, found that he had severely bitten his tongue, dislocated one thumb, and sustained several gashes, from which he was bleeding freely. He had little time to worry about these injurie however. What was left of the plane was in such imminent danger of sinking that in order to balance it on the remaining float, he and Kirtland had to find just the right places to sit on the teeter-tottery wing. And by the time they did so, they discovered they were drifting out to  sca.  A few minutes later they were heartened by the prospect of rescue when a sailboat came into view and approached them. There were two men on it and as they came nearer, Arnold, seeing their military uniforms, decided th