is mischief arose from the activities of a secret nocturnal  21 * HAP  cadet society called the “Black Hand,” of which Arnold was a founding member."* Despite its chilling name, the Black Hand had no sinister motives, no subversive or perverse ideology. It was simply a vehicle for boyish pranks, often led by Arnold, and it was tolerated by West Point authorities for the same reason adolescent Halloween pranks used to be tolerated by the public at large, before the modern, namby-pamby trick-or-treat vogue was adopted. It gave the boys a chance to work off their high spirits and even their hostilities, if any, without causing more than minor damage. Much of the fun for the academy Black Hand members arose simply from the audacity of being out of their bunks without authorization in the middle of the night. That in itself was a triumph over the established authority, and the triumph was even more delicious if it was certifiable in the light of day by some tangible sign of mischief accomplished. The moonlight cavorting of the Black Handers often came to nothing more, therefore, than a restless prowl in search of windows to be soaped, garbage cans to be overturned, or buggies to be upended. Occasionally, however, the boys would come up with a stunt slightly more imaginative  Like all soldiers, Arnold and his buddies hated reveille, especially  since it came at 5:  10 a.m., forcing them out of bed and into their uniforms for a bone-chilling outdoor trek to the bathhouse-latrine, which was across the quad from their barracks. (Not until 1907 did West Point dormitories have indoor plumbing facilities.) One night the Black Handers devised a way to get back at reveille, at least symbolically. By huff and by puff they hauled the reveille cannon up the barracks stairs and managed to get it out onto the roof, sitting astride the apex. Not only did they shut it up for at least one morning, they left it on ignominious display so that the entire cadet corps could look up gratefully