Force ever had. He yment of the Air Force and in its global le dreamed of a few years before, when  emoirs he then had “high hopes of the Air Forces, but in fact those hopes ‘ecause Truman's previous contact with cordial. As a senator from Missouri, he ating wartime waste, and had inevitably aircraft procurement program. When 3, the senator had even paid a visit to his and when Arnold's secretary, Suzy over, pointing out that she had no had walked out indignantly. The new captain in World War I. Would he be to the concept of a separate air force? It »¢ left to chance. | that he go right back to Washington the campaign for a separate air force, ninistration, this was the time to lay the ig part-time, Spaatz believed, Arnold one clse,** a surprising show of self-preservation. ed to Ira Eaker that he would have to rces for him, and that he was to bring Cabell, Kuter, and Vandenberg, all of  Thomas M, Coffey 3  and the bathtub, like Goering himself, was huge. “Goering must have sat down with a thud,” Arnold observed, “for the porcelain is cracked.”  Arnold was in bed by 9:30 the night he arrived, because Dr Marquardt was determined that he get plenty of sleep—as was George Marshall back in Washington. Marshall had reacted favorably to Ar- nold’s travel plan because it would get him out of Washington, where he was seldom able to relax, but Marshall did not want him to go to Europe and act as if he were still in Washington. The two men had talked earnestly about this before Arnold left for Europe, and Arnold had promised he would take it easy  He did, at least, get up “late” his first morning in Paris. “The doctor 15.” Then with Tooey Spaatz, Marquardt, and others, he took a drive through Paris (“a  must have given me a slug, for I didn’t awaken until  sorry city [with] scars from street battles”) to the airport, where they took off for Rheims and a long lunch with Eisenhower at his headquarters. After a visit to Spaatz’s headquarters, he flew back to Paris in time for dr