aiding planes?* As soon as he reached his office he was confronted by other questions, which indicated the Navy might not deserve all the blame. Why, for instance did it take three or four hours after the first Japanese attack in Hawaii before most of the Air Forces’ P-40 fighters could get off the ground? And how could twelve Air Forces B-17s have been caught on the ground and destroyed in the Philippines? Fortunately for Ar nold, these questions would never embarrass him personally because he had no control over the use of Air Forces units in Hawaii or the Philippines. Operationally, the Air Forces were still part of the Army and the air commander. But while the dismal lack of air performance on December 7 and 8 may not have embarrassed  Arnold, it did infuriate him, “I had always believed that our airmen  would fight it out in the air,” he said. “They should never have been caught flat-footed on the ground. It was a very sad blow to me.”  More important, it demonstrated a problem he would have to cope with throughout the war. It was his job to put those hard-earned planes and crews together. But what was the point of sending air units overseas to fight if ground force generals like Walter Short in Hawaii and Douglas MacArthur in the Philippines allowed them to sit idle and be destroyed on the ground? MacArthur on Dec ember 10 sent him an effusive radiogram about the gallantry of the air crews in the Philippines. “Their losses were due entirely to the overwhelming superiority of enemy  245  Thomas M. Coffey * 244  destination. What he had in mind was the danger of passing Japanese- mandated islands like Truk. He didn't even dream of the bloody chaos they would find when they tried to land, the very next day, at Wheeler Field on Oahu  At midnight, after waving goodbye to the last of these thirteen B-17s, Arnold and Beebe retired for a short night’s sleep; the next morning they flew to Bakersfield, where they met Donald Douglas and his father. After a drive of sever