riends, Arnold’s high regard for Knerr’s ability is indicated by his description of the job for which he was recommending him.  “Three days after his cable, on June 15, Arnold sent a letter to Eaker criticizing him because he hadn't yet fired his maintenance officer, his  bomber commander, or his fighter commander  Thomas M. Coffey * 314 7  emphasized the still unfulfilled request. He had by that time received ‘att some wing tanks, but they were less than satisfactory. Lovett’s visit gave ‘rwosll Eaker a chance to make it clear that he would lose fewer B-17s over su iit Germany if he had fighters that could escort them all the way to their sitet targets.**  When Lovett returned to Washington, he wrote two memoranda to ist Arnold (June 18 and 19) assessing the needs of the Eighth. The latest r Messerschmitt 109, he said, had a definite edge on the P-47, but there were ways to improve the P-47. And one of those ways was to add ull auxiliary tanks. “It is increasingly apparent,” Lovett informed Arnold, iy “that fighter escort will have to be provided for B-17s on as many He missions as possible.” anil  He suggested that the twin-fuselage P-38 might be suitable. (Actual- aha ly, as it was learned later, the P-38 could not maneuver well enough to rai cope with the German fighters.) More important than his P-38 sugges- 7  tion was a remark he made at the end of his first memo, which seemed almost like an afterthought but was soon to assume great significance “High hopes are felt,” he said, “for the P-51 with wing tanks.” Day by day, more and more people were beginning to think seriously about the potential of the improved P-51.  Lovett’s assessment wasn’t Arnold's first warning that long-range fighters were going to be an absolute necessity, In late May, Col. Emmett “Rosie” O'Donnell, a one-time West Point football hero (and teammate of Blondie Saunders), who had distinguished himself as a B-17 com- mander in the Pacific and was now a member of Arnold's council, went to E