r to Bermuda on the first leg of his flight. Lois and Ernie were then living in Pensacola, Florida, where he was stationed, but had come north on leave for a visit In New York, Arnold made connections with Maj. Elwood P. “Pete” Quesada, his aide and companion on the trip. Quesada, who was well known in the Air Corps for his flying skill, had been one of the pilots on the famous “Question Mark” flight, which set an air endurance record of 150 hours, 40 minutes, in 1929. (Others on that flight were Carl Spaatz, Ira Eaker, Harry A. Halverson, and Roy Hoc  Flying to Europe was a roundabout experience in 1941, before the days of nonstop airliners and before the Air Corps’ North Adantic route via Newfoundland and Greenland had been opened. Arnold and Quesada, plus sixteen other venturesome passengers, took off on the clipper bound for Portugal at 1:15 a.m. on April 11 and stopped at Bermuda and the Azores before reaching Lisbon, which was then a  center of international intrigue. Because Portugal was a neutral  country and one of the few gateways to and from conquered Europe, people from all the warring nations moved in and out of it, exc hanging information or whatever else they might have to sell tg Arnold, not yet accustomed to being considered an important man “hardly knew what to expect” from the English. He was sure he woul get to meet Air Chief Marshal Charles Portal and his subordinates and perhaps even Lord Beaverbrook, the British newspaper publisher ae clas Lepr eee But Arnold did not ¢ United States, | was definitely in the  pi om ee Sileus not reached the ‘major league’ ‘as astonished, therefore, to find that a  party of three, headed by Air Marshal John C. Slessor had flown all the way to Portugal to  minor league,’  British welcoming  grect him After checking in at the Hotel Abbis, Arnold and Quesada took  HAP  time for a bath; then, at breakfast with Slessor and his companions, they learned that the British were eager to get right down to business. First o