ent in town buying Alpine capes and stocks for a mountain-climbing endeavor, and that they would be returning home, across Lake Lucerne, on the 5:00 p.m. boat.'*.  When Arnold reached the dock he had no trouble finding Eleanor, whom he could never forget, but he was disappointed to discover that she didn't recognize him. “Here stood this skeleton in a grey suit,” she later recalled. “He was nothing but bones. I didn't know him.” After the West Point incident, when she waved at him in his upstairs window, she could recall having seen him only once, at a party in Ardmore that summer, “but he was very bashful and didn't dance,” so he hadn't come close to exciting her interest. He was, however, a hometown boy, and her mother had invited him to come and stay a few days at their hotel. He and Eleanor spent the boat trip talking about Ardmore and piecing together their sparse recollections of each other. She didn't find him unattractive, and more important, her mother liked him, so his stay stretched into several days, then a week, then two weeks (he didn’t have to report for duty at Governor's Island until October 22). He and Eleanor climbed mountains together and he talked to her about his jungle adventures in the Philippines. Like Othello, he was much more articulate when he talked about his experiences as a soldier than when he tried to make small talk. He was rough-hewn, unpolished, still boyish and impulsive, but intelligent, cheerful, and on closer inspection, really quite handsome. She was not displeased when her mother invited him to travel with them down the Rhine and return home with them by way of London. But before this expedition got under way, he received a frantic message from his sister, Betty, informing him that his father was so ill he might soon die. Knowing Betty and her eagerness to s  him, he might have doubted the urgency, but he decided to go immediately to Cher-  bourg by way of Paris and catch the first steamer for home. He left Eleanor Pool with