y unescorted bombers over Germany.”  Arnold seemed in these reminiscences to imply that it was the 1935 G.H.Q. Air Force exercises that convinced him long-range bombers would need fighter escorts all the way to their targets. Future events were to leave some doubt that he settled on this conviction as early as he indicated.  Arnold enjoyed his association with the G.H.Q. Air Force because, under Andrews's direction, it seemed to be doing something. It offered a challenge. It invited experiment. It was attempting to develop, expand, refine, and clarify the function the Air Corps should fulfill in national defense. It was trying for the first time to decide in practical terms how air power could and should be coordinated for the nation’s maximum benefit. Arnold found the work satisfying and so did his men. They were now part of an increasingly tight-knit outfit that was getting something accomplished, and around that fact they built an esprit de corps. But just as some people had foreseen when the G.H.Q. Air Force was formed, this esprit, this identification with one part of the Air Corps, tended to separate the G,H.Q. men from the section under the command of the chief of Air Corps. Arnold himself freely admitted that by the end of 1935, his loyalty was with the G.H.Q. rather than the chief of Air Cor ps. “With the contention of General Andrews that his G.H Q. Air Fores should not report to the Chief of the Air Corps at all, but should head  up directly under the Chief of Staff, we enthusiastically agreed.” By “we” he meant “1.” i  In early December 1935, the G.H.Q. Air Force held a maneuver in  Florida, the first aspect of which was to find out how quickly all of its  units could gather in one locality. Arnold's planes, coming from Cali-  f 7 ore al - s e s las ornia, were allotted twenty-four hours to get to Vero Beach. His last one was rg ~ ours and forty-five utes lea : = the ground twenty-one hours and forty-five minute after leaving far Fiel ex! ever D) Ss : se