is high hopes for the book were not tobe realized. The people at Harpers who had once talked about selling 60,000 or 80,000 copies were then expecting to sell only 6,000 to 8,000."  Bruce and Barbara came for Christmas and found him cheerful  despite his dismal prospects. He no Jonger had the strength to make his    Thomas M. Coffey * 388  traditional Christmas cookies, but he supervised as the others baked.” From Barbara’s father, Donald Douglas, they brought Hap a gag  Thomas M. Coffey * 388  traditional Christmas cookies, but he supervised as the others baked.”  From Barbara’s father, Donald Douglas, they brought Hap a gag  present—a shower curtain depicting Ulysses as he passed the Sirens, one  of whom had tatooed on her anatomy the famous grafitto that American servicemen had written on countless walls all over the world during World War I1—*“Kilroy was here.” Arnold loved it. He put it up immediately and made all of his visitors go into the bathroom to see it.  Bruce and Barbara themselves brought him a four-light bar to use with his home movie camera. They realized how sick he was when he proved to be too weak to hold up the bar.  On Christmas Day, Bruce decided to play for his father all the Army bugle calls in their proper order from morning to night. He had already embarked on this nostalgic program when it dawned on him how his father might interpret the last one, When evening came and it was time  for Taps, Bruce let the hour pass. No one mentioned it.  A few days after Christmas, Bruce and Barbara left Sonoma for Cape Canaveral, Florida. Hap and Bee went together to Gordon and Josephine Tevis's New Year's Eve party, but they didn't stay long, Mrs. Tevis noticed that he looked even less well than usual. He was so thin his collar hung loose around his neck.**  After the holidays, he went to work on the revision of his military aviation article for the Britannica, but day by day he became more aware that he was not up to the task. Bee, whose devotion to hi