her he could make Craig accept his reason for sending relief to the Long Beach The reason had been simple  quake victims without authorization enough. Those people needed help and old Colonel Hilton, whose job it was to help them, couldn't be found. Yet Craig, like Hilton, was getting along in age, and he was known to be a stern, strict soldier who liked to  stick to the rules. On the morning of July 20, Arnold took off for San Francisco in a  Thomas M. Coffey = 150  He helped them make paper gliders. He bestowed warmth and affec- tion, but in his own controlled way, He was never a pal to his sons; he was always unmistakably a father, a figure of authority, and all three of them regarded him with a degree of awe. “Yet through it all,” Bruce recalled, “the strictness, the too-busyness, the shyness, we all felt that he was  something special. He was a man with a mission.”  Movie stars were not the only people Arnold cultivated while he was at March Field. In 1924, Arnold had visited Donald Douglas at his Los Angeles plant, after Douglas had launched his own company and was building a special plane for a round-the-world flight. This was the first personal contact between the two men."7 In 1926, just after Arnold was exiled to Fort Riley, he had already become familiar enough with Douglas to mention the possibility that he might like to leave the service and work for him. (Douglas told him in effect that he was needed in the service and should stay there.) By 1931, when Arnold came to March, they had become close friends. They saw each other often and went quail shooting together. But more important, Arnold, through Douglas, was able to keep himself well informed about the latest developments in aircraft technology. Douglas, more than any other manufacturer, gave him an opportunity to study the aircraft industry from inside, to learn about its needs, its limitations, and its potential output  Arnold also cultivated, while at March, the friendship of the great California