ne, he wanted done immediately, and if that necessitated a violation of orderly process, so be it. Through no fault of his, the Air  Corps administrative setup was so unwieldy that he almost had to ignore  223 HAP  it in order to get things done, Though it was a fast-growing organization that operated almost separately from the Army, it was still ultimately subordinate to the Army and dependent on it for most of its needs, including quartermaster supplies, engineering, ordnance, medicine, and other special services. And thanks to the 1935 reorganization, it was divided within itself in a way which worked against cohesion, The H.Q. Air Force still existed, under the command of Lt. Gen Delos Emmons, and its job was to do the fighting, but without much regard for  any of the important support functions essential to a fighting unit. The  stics, transportation,  rest of the Air Corps, which handled planning, lo procurement, training, and construction of fac ilities, was separate from it and now under the command of Maj. Gen. George Brett, whom Arnold had made acting chief of Air Corps. Arnold himself, as deputy chief of staff for air, was nominally in control of both parts, but the G.H.Q. habit of independence, plus the fact that Emmons was senior to him and outranked him, made his control over the operational units tenuous. While he actually did run the whole Air Corps by the sheer force of his personality, he hadn't really managed to consolidate its parts.*  When Lovett discovered this organizational situation, he dec lared it “appallingly bad.” He had spent two years in England studying the structure of the R.A.F., and though he agreed with Mar shall and Arnold that this was no time to strive for a completely independent air force, he favored a reorganization that would give the corps more autonomy and much more cohesion. He went to Stimson and asked for authority to develop a plan. Simson gave his blessing and Lovett went right to work.  Arnold, released by Lovett fr