d be put to work, not only to keep him out of mischief but to instill in him a sense of responsibility. Dr. Arnold's own father, Thomas Arnold, a nailer by trade at the Hooven Nail Works in the Montgomery County seat of Norristown,? had put him to work at that age, Though Thomas Arnold had disassociated himself from the Mennonite Church of the Brethren, which had been the family's religious affiliation for two centuries, he had not abandoned all of the Mennonite tenets, one of which was that everyone should learn, at an early age  , to work. He had, however, abandoned another tenet of the Mennonites at that time—that six or seven years of education were enough for anybody because no more than that was necessary to make aman a good farmer. Herbert, Thomas's son, attended the Norristown public schools and was graduated from the high school there in 1873 When he expressed a desire to study medicine, his father did not discourage him. Since it was customary at that time and place to begin such study under the tutelage of an established physician, he appren- ticed himself to Dr. Joseph K. Weaver of Norristown, then completed his  studies at Jefferson Medical College, from which he was graduated in  1878. After practicing for a year in Evansburg, he opened an office at Gladwyne, where he also bought a farm, and where Henry Harley Arnold was born on June 25, 1886  Henry was the third child and second son in a children. Because Dr.  family of five Arnold, like his father, retained many strict Mennonite standards despite his conversion to the B house was not a free-and-easy, fun-filled place  At all times a stern, exacting man,  apust faith, his for his growing children. he strenuously disapproved of any kind of play, either for children or adults, nor did he suffer jokes or rhe main purpose of life was salvation, and the as work, of which he demanded as much from himself  lighthearted banter road to salvation w  13 HAP  as from others. His first child, Elizabeth, who was fo