ogether in a short space of time,” Arnold admitted. “Of course, we have some more planes but they are in use at the training fields and schools. These thirty-five planes represent our actual air force, which would be called upon in case of attack.”  “What you mean to say, then, is that the air force is scattered throughout the country instead of being concentrated under the chief of the Air Service?”  “Exactly.”  “Then you don't wish to be quoted in tomorrow's papers as saying  that the United States has only thirty-five plane “I would not like to tell how many planes we have,” Arnold said, “but we have been trying for five years to build up an air force, and you heard it all this afternoon—thirty-five planes.” The public was quite impressed by Arnold's alarming testimony and his pathetic aerial display, but President Coolidge was not. He happened  oe    * .    Thomas M. Coffey * 126  air power propaganda to friendly newsmen and radio commentators." Though the General Staff had ordered all of the air zealots to cease their public agitation, General Patrick himself, whose belief in air power J, seemed  remained steadfast despite his restraint during the Mite hell tria sympathetic to these young men on his staff who refused to surrender. They didn't tell him openly what they were doing, to be sure, but neither did they conceal their activities from him, which explained why he felt no need to investigate when Secretary of War Dwight F. Davis ordered him, in early February, to find out who in his office was leaking anti-Navy and anti-General Staff information to certain congressmen, newsmen, and a Philadelphia radio commentator, He knew the chief culprits were Arnold and Dargue. And if he had to sacrifice one of them, he was hardly likely to choose Dargue, a very able officer whom he liked personally. It would be Arnold, whom he cordially disliked.  When Patrick called Arnold in to give him a choice between a court-martial and resignation from the service, he undoubtedl