ee powers finished their deliberations, everyone would move on to Tehran for a four-power conference with  alin, whom the American press now referred  Russia's dictator, Joseph to as the “president” of Russia since he had become an ally.  On the afternoon of the third day at sea, while the naval convoy was staging an antiaircraft display for the benefit of the president and the other dignitaries aboard, the Jowa, America’s newest and largest battle- ship, suddenly received from an escorting destroyer a very real torpedo alarm.  “The whole character of the maneuver changed instantly,” Arnold noticed. “We began to zigzag. All ships started to zigzag. More com- mands from everywhere. Whistles, flags, code signals. The din aboard the ship was terrific. The wake of the torpedo became quite clear. A  Thomas M. Coffey *  4  tackle the Germans. On October 4, 326 B-17s hit Frankfurt and only twelve were lost. On the eighth, ninth, and tenth, they hit military targets  in Bremen, Gdynia, Marienburg, Anklam, and Minster. But in those three days, 8:  of them were shot down by the Germans Eaker received a congratulatory cable from Arnold on the eleventh:  The employment of larger bombing forces on successive days is encouraging proof that you are putting an increasing proportion of your bombers where they will hurt the enemy. Good work. As you turn your effort away from ship-building cities and toward crippling the sources of the sull-growing German fighter forces the air war is clearly moving toward our supremacy in the air. Carry on  Eaker did exactly that. On the fourteenth, he sent 291 Fortresses back to Schweinfurt. Those bombers soon found themselves up against several hundred German fighters in what still ranks as the most horrendous air battle of all time. Despite constant attacks from every angle, the B-17s flew across Germany and inflicted even more damage on the Schweinfurt ball-bearing plants than they had done in August. But again 60 Fortresses failed to return home