hat do we need to maintain it?  I will start by emphasizing that I am not holding any brief for a permanent air force in terms of the mighty air forces we built up during the war. What we will need is an adequate, well-trained, fully equipped force of whatever kind is necessary to use the new weapons and devices properly.  This was the man who, more than any other, had brought the Air Forces to the ultimate moment of power. In  airplane and the L 1945, only an airplane could have delivered the atomic bombs to Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The release of those bombs was the culmina- tion of the campaign Billy Mitchell, Arnold, and others had waged in favor of air power since the end of World War I. On the day of the Hiroshima cataclysm, the Air Forces Arnold had built were capable of dominating the entire world. But now, only two months later, he was telling the airmen who would follow him that if something better came along, they must be ready ruthlessly to discard the airplane.  In late October, he flew to Mexico as President Truman's represent- ative to try to build up that country’s air strength. And on November 8, he wrote a memorandum to George Marshall recommending his own retirement from active duty, But he was still on active duty later that month when Marshall resigned as chief of staff to become ambassador to China. Did this mean Marshall had won their five-dollar bet as to which of them would retire first? Arnold didn’t think so, because Marshall's China job could hardly be considered a retirement. At Christmastime he  exchanged letters with Bob Lovett, who had already retired and was 3 s  sitting in the Florida sun, dreadfully missing the Air Forces.  In early January, with Bee and Lois, Arnold embarked on a trip to South America representing the president in hemisphere aviation matters. He intended to visit Colombia, Peru, ¢ hile, Brazil, and Argenu- na, but the high altitude in Bogota affected his heart and by the time he reached Lima he had developed a flut