aid to Hank and Bruce, “You sit down and write to your  mother.” The results were succinct  135 * HAP  Dear Mother,  Thank you for the belt and the necktie. The trees are ge ting little leaves on them. I hope David is getting along all right. The Shoefelts have already moved. And they have a dog  Yours truly,  Bill  Dear Mom,  Dad said you had a cold. Is David getting better? Chaplin [sic] Moon's funeral was yesterday and all the scouts were there. We got the shot today and I have a heg necktie. The Rameys are goir April 7th  dache. Thank you for the belt and the move into the Shufelts house on  Yours truly, Henry PS. Bring David home someday  David's operation was successful and Bee did indeed bring him home. The two older boys were both healthy and growing apace Eleven-year-old Hank was almost five feet tall and weighed eighty-six pounds, according to a school physical examination that fall. Ten-year old Billy Bruce was four feet seven and weighed cighty-two pounds. Best ofall, both of them had excellent hearing and 20/20 vision, ideal for future Air Corps pilots.  While Arnold carried on his work at Fort Riley, hopefully awaiting some new and exciting development, there was activity brewing else- where concerning him. Several years earlier he had applied for admis- sion to the Command and General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, which could open the road to high Army rank. While General Patrick was Air Service chief, there was no likelihood that that applica- tion would be forwarded favorably, And even if it were to reach the commandant at Leavenworth it would not be received favorably because that commandant was General Edward L. King, another of the judges at the Billy Mitchell trial. He disapproved not only of the air-power campaign, but also of Hap Arnold personally  General Fechet knew how Patrick and King felt about Arnold, but he had a different opinion, especially after observing his work during the 1927 San Antonio war maneuver. In the summer of