y bombardment operations against Germany as soon as possible, from British bases and with their own units. The latter was a clear victory for Arnold, who promised, much too optimistically, to have his first bomb group in England within three months. But even after winning this preliminary skirmish, Arnold realized there were many underlying issues that had not yet been joined. He was to feel some heavy and conflicting pressure soon from the British and from the U.S, Navy.  The pressure was quick in coming. After the Washington meetings, Arnold took Portal on a short trip to Florida, where they fished, sat in the sun, and got to know each other. They had what Arnold called “a wonderful time,” but if he thought he was softening Portal, he was misjudging the man. As soon as Portal returned to England, he sent back the kind of request Arnold was most eager to forestall. The R.A.F. wanted 250 B-17s to use as submarine chasers in the British coastal command,”  This request infuriated Arnold. It insulted America’s premier airplane by suggesting it would be suitable only for patrol duty, not for its original purpose as a deep-penetration bomber. And it pursued the apparent British intention of trying to absorb American planes into the R.AF. rather than giving the United States a chance to build its own air force.  At the same time, the Navy's pressure on the Air Forces was increasing. Already the admirals were beginning to see the virtues of the B-17s they had so strenuously belittled.* Squeezed by the demands from  both sides, Arnold decided to play one against the other. In late January  he invited to his office Air Marshal Harris, who was still in Washington,  Thomas M. Coffey * 248  feat believed to be impossible, Doolitte touched down smoothly, taxied over to the assembled men, got out, and said to them, “Now what is it you don’t like about this airplane?”  Be  one engine  re he left several days later, all of them had learned to land on  On the afternoon of Sunday, De