, where the advanci iz Russians were apparently standing by and allowing the Germans to slaughter Polish resistance fighters? Virtually nothing. But aside from such questions, the debates in Quebec were centered mostly on details of command structure in Europe, where Allied armies, having broken through German defenses in France, were moving inexorably toward the Rhine  When Arnold returned from Quebec, he began conc entrating on a new phase of his Air Forces responsibility—cutbacks in production and personnel. The flow of men, planes and supplies (exc ept B-29s) to all  theaters was now so plentiful that Arnold and Lovett felt it had to be restrained to prevent waste,  Arnold said to his staff one day, “Just because I turned all the spigots on, isn’t there someone around here wh« knows enough to turn them off ?” :  There were now almost 2.4 million men and women in the Air Forces, and pilots were graduating at the rate of 105,000 per year. About 4,000 airplanes per month were coming off the assembly lines. Arnold ordered a gradual cutback all the way down the line. Then he n= to California in early October to study the effects of diminishing produc: tion in the aircraft industry. With the war moving toward a resolution the aircraft companies would have to be curtailed sharply, but Ea  thought it would be dangerous to the country’s security if they were  353 « HAP  allowed to return to the skeletal condition from which they had begun war preparations in 1939.  While in California, he had dinner with his son Bruce, now a second lieutenant with an automatic-weapons unit, and Bruce's bride, Donald Douglas's daughter, Barbara. Arnold had missed their June wedding because he was in England. Bruce’s unit was training for an amphibious operation and still anticipating shipment overseas. Arnold said ina letter to Hank, “Ultimately he will get his assignment in some theater —probably not the same one you are in.” With one son at the front in Europe, Arnold was almost certain