man  rmans had failed  sh, who had tried daylight bombing,  defenses. And they were also pointing out that the G in their attempts to use daylight bombing against British defenses. If he wanted to bomb Germany, they said, he would have to be content to do  rican rye  sine " , i; as they did—drop great loads on large cities at night. if  ill Arnold did not intend to relinquish a plan that he and his fellow 3 7 : ji airmen had cherished ever since the appearance of the B-17. But he did ney . s ini have some serious discussions about the plan with the man he had When Spaatz came  iit selected to fulfill it—his old friend Carl Spaatz 2 cant uit back from England the year before after observing the Bae of Br itain, jul Arnold had got him his first star and then assigned him to Wright Field jet Spaatz, who was never intensely absorbed in technical details, Ee for some other post, but Arnold had said, “T hat’s where you're going  vi! After Spaai ad bee week so. came back to ini Aft iz had n in Dayton a we or , he ca  awit’ Washington and went into his act again until Arnold relented and made wo!’ him chief of the air staff. He was one man on whom Arnold felt he could dow always rely. The two of them decided that, w hatever the British might igi think, daylight bombing was possible, and that it would be much more , conducive to winning the war than dropping bombs blindly and indis- it! criminately on civilians at night. or t With Spaatz now the overall commander of the newly formed ygiltl” Eighth Air Force, an organization that existed on paper only at that time, yiihs” Arnold called in another dependable old friend, Ira Eaker, mae te iii” taken over the fighter defenses on the West Coast the day after ne Pearl Harbor attack, When Eaker arrived in Washington on January 8, Arnold  “You're going to England. I want you to fly over there and  said to hir  Thomas M. Coffey 90  and treated him to a convincing display of emotional heat. The result was a cipher telegram from Harris