Towers, once a fellow student at the Wright brothers’ flying school, now the chief of naval aviation. But what could Towers do other than laugh? Though he might even agree with Arnold, as a naval aviator he had no more influence over sea officers than Arnold had over  ground officers.  In January I$ Arnold's expansion plans met new complications  France to ment. A | several m« medal fro: not very a passed thr man who seriously Lindb that on No not exactly  ing him ol  This oppor am m the m powe leade ing he prod excell Gern whate  My belies regar trip u count  As it previous s superiors receiving | possibility bergh, We gone to Gc they had b informatic everything trip to Ge  He wi that Bee a and Ernie  Thomas M. Coffey * 192  With Roosevelt and his associates leaking rumors that the president would soon ask Congress for enough money to build an eight- to ten-thousand-plane Air Corps, it seemed logical to expect that the aircraft manufacturers would be happy and eager to get going. But were they? Not quite. They had become disturbed by the concurrent rumors that the government itself might build some aircraft plants. If the aircraft companies increased their capacity during the crisis and then found the government producing its own airplanes after the crisis, they might face bankruptcy. In addition, they weren't quite sure how the government defined the crisis. Already the French and English were  shopping for planes. Were the companies expected simply to supply  their needs, plus the eight or ten thousand planes the expanded Air Corps would want in the next two years? And what were the needs of the French and British? They were still at peace, but the danger of war was increasing. Should the American aircraft industry prepare itself only for the present and foreseeable future? For the day when the French and British might mobilize totally? For the day when the entire world, especially the United States, might mobilize totally?  The industry was not ready to move unt