aipan was home to Hansell’s 21st Bomber Command. Despite bad weather, the confusion and fighting around them, the inexperience of the crews, and some last-minute doubts about feasibility, O'Donnell, followed by 110 B of November 24. The Japanese capital was overcast and the bombing was poor, but by late afternoon, Hap Arnold could say at last that his B-29s had attacked Tokyo. And only two of them had been lost.  3s, took off from Saipan for Tokyo on the morning  Thomas M. Coffey * 354  was not about to die. The first thing he did, as LeMay recalled, was to ‘give us hell for taking so long to get there.” Saunders survived, after months of surgery, but his combat career was at an end, and his removal to hospital deprived LeMay of an important source of advice about B-29 problems in China and India  Fortunately, the plane itself was now showing signs of improvement. A new baffling system had cut down the excessive engine heat, and several less critical bugs had been eliminated, especially in the latest models, But LeMay still had some big decisions to make about the operation and he didn’t have much time to make them. Chiang Kai-shek, using Claire Chennault as his spokesman, was demanding that the B-29s in China either be turned over to him or be moved to another theater. Though Arnold was ignoring this demand, he knew he had to get some action out of the Superforts against Japan soon, or Chiang, MacArthur, the Navy, and others who wanted them for local actions would have legitimate arguments for taking them from him.  LeMay was aware of the pressures upon Arnold, and he was also, even more keenly, aware of the pressures Arnold was already putting upon him. In a September 22 letter to him, Arnold pointed out that *  we have not as yet obtained the bomb loads which originally were envisaged for the B-29. must either be replaced or trained to a point where they can obtain the  maximum from their airplane. I wish you would drive home to your  And in the next paragraph, h