ills, you had better make the most of it.  Hoping that you will accept this in the spirit in which it is written, that of helping you out, | am, with love,  ur father  It was one occasion when he did not indulge Lois. But neither did he change her. In an undated letter apparently written about ten days later, she said: “I am about to die for want of a mature male. I am so tired of playing Dumb Dora for these college men, but it's the only way to secure dates—wide-eyed innocence.” Later in the same letter, she asked, “Did you get any new West Pointers [at March Field]? .. . I do miss the Army so.” These two tenuously connected thoughts might offer a clue to the workings of Lois's mind. She didn’t care for civilian college boys. She was interested in Army men. West Pointers. And fliers. Men like her father  It was not long before Lois alleviated her shortage of “mature” males. In letters to some of her father’s young officers she let them know that her sorority house was full of girls eager to meet Air Corps fliers. Tucson suddenly became a popular stopover for cross-country flights by Arnold's bombers and fighters. But as a result, Lois had a problem to  explain when she came home from school the following summer. She  Thomas M. Coffey * 164  revelations in her letters, and when she wrote asking his permission to transfer to another school, he sent her a stinging reply, dated October  10, 1934, with some sharp words about her attitude:  I should hate to think that you really meant what you wrote. I hope that we did not get the meaning which you intended to convey. I don’t believe that you are yellow—a quitter. I don’t believe that you think that you are so much better than the average run of young America that you can not associate with them. I  n't believe that you have made up your mind that you have developed so that you are far beyond others of your age  If we are correct in our interpretation of your letter, you had better change your mind right away and get dow