tone and sad, “Chuck, we now havea very powerful weapon Do you know about iv  Siome ad,“ know vey litle about it but 1 knew we had i,"  Do you think we should drop id”  No, sr  369 « HAP  Arnold looked him in the eye and said, “If Stalin could hear you say that, he'd hang you up by the balls.”  Did that mean Arnold favored or disfavored the use of the great new bomb? Stone couldn't tell  While Arnold was in the Philippines he drove out to Fort McKinley, where he had been stationed in the early days of his career, and tried to find the house he and Bee had occupied. All he could find was the concrete steps leading up to the porch  From Manila, he flew directly to Okinawa, where, after a welcome  by several generals and admirals, he met his son Bruce, who, like his son  Hank in Europe, was now a combat veteran. Bruce and his artillery unit had waded ashore with the initial wave of American troops the day Okinawa was invaded—the first of April—and they were still secing sporadic action. Arnold took Bruce to dinner at Tenth Army headquar- ters, and afterward they had some time to themselves.  Like any father whose son is in a battle situation, Arnold was worried about Bruce and wanted to give him some advice based on information he had picked up in Guam. He had been told that Japanese troops there, after killing some American guards, had committed atrocities upon them.  Visibly uncomfortable, he said to Bruce, “They cut off their ” He hesitated as if he didn’t know how to continue. He had never found it easy to use vulgar language. He might do so, on a rare occasion, In front of a man like Chuck Stone, whom he had known for a long time, but he had never talked that way in front of his own sons. Flustered but determined, he said finally, “their ‘peters.’ ”  Bruce was momentarily surprised by his father’s evident embarrass- ment, but when he reflected upon it, he realized that within the Arnold family, “we had never talked about our bodies.” His father was still so Victor