ensively because the early radios were limited in range, and pigeons, unlike airplanes, could home into the exact destination for which a message was intended. Arnold “  accepted the  challenge for the airplane,” with a large box full of trained Signal Corps birds, some with “distin- guished combat records” in the World War. The race was to be from Portland to San Francisco, and the governor of Oregon, Ben Olcott, was to accompany Arnold as a passenger.  On the morning the race began, the pigeons were ceremoniously released as Arnold and the governor dashed to their plane. But it was cold, and as they tried to start the engine, they could see the pigeons disappearing southward. Forty-five minutes later, when the engine finally turned over, Arnold had to play catch-up, which didn’t look easy  and soon found himself flying to Portland  inasmuch as he would have to make two or three refueling stops.  When he and the governor reached Medford, Oregon, they were told about pigeon sightings as far south as Red Bluff. Meanwhile, in San Francisco, it was a field day for the bookies, who mingled with the aphic bulle- tins. As reports arrived of Arnold's delays and the numerous p  crowds on Market Street, following the race through teleg  ‘on sightings closer and closer to San Francisco, people began putting their money on the birds.  Arnold at this time was almost ready to concede the race, and when he landed at Crissy Field, seven and a half hours after takeoff from Portland, he fully expected to be greeted as the loser. But to everyone's  ‘ancisco  surprise, no pigeons had yet arrived. All those seen near San F had apparently been local birds, Aying merely for the fun of it. Not unul forty-eight hours later did the Signal Corps birds reach their home  coop:  Three months later, on a flight in his aging and somewhat battered LePere from San Francisco to March Field near Riverside, seventy-five miles east of Los Angeles, Arnold had an experience that did not help  Thomas M. t