s General Arnold again.”  Arnold, in his own efforts to make the best use of his brightest young officers, formed a new advisory council, which began in mid- February with just two members, Norstad and Cabell. One morning they found themselves together in Arnold’s anteroom. They had been told to report to him but they hadn't been told why. Cabell had reason to be nervous about the meeting. He had met Arnold only once and had quite thoroughly disliked him. In April 1941, after returning from England, where he had taken part in a study of the R.A-F.'s system of aerial reconnaissance photography, he had stopped in Washington en route to Wright Field to brief Arnold. This was the first time Cabell had ever  talked to his chief and he didn’t consider the talk satisfactory. As he later recalled  fe listened to part of my report, then he would interrupt, sort of back me against the wall, shake his finger at me and tell me all the things that were wrong about the Air Force in general and reconnais- sance in particular. He was not critical of my report so much as he was  critical of the things I was reporting on, and why we were not doing a better job in our own Air Forces on reconnaissance and photography But the thing that impressed me most was, he seemed to be holding me responsible for this lack of progress—holding me responsible for all the ills of the Air Force.”'*  It was soon evident that Arnold had come away from that first meeting liking Cabell better than Cabell liked him. When Cabell and Norstad were called into Arnold’s office, he began by showing them a new Air Forces organizational chart with a little box leading out from the  commanding general's box. In this box were the words council,”  “advisory  “You two boys,” Arnold said, “will be my advisory council. I need a  small office that reports directly to me and can help me with my  255 * HAP  problems. What I want you two boys to do is to do my thinking for me—my long-range, blue-sky thinking. I don’t want yo