r they were heartened by the prospect of rescue when a sailboat came into view and approached them. There were two men on it and as they came nearer, Arnold, seeing their military uniforms, decided they were elderly Army veterans from the Soldiers’ Home in Plymouth. Certain of rescue now, he began explaining to them the circumstances of his predicament and thanking them for coming out to help. Closer and closer they sailed, until their boat was almost close enough for Arnold to touch, but still they said nothing. Finally, without uttering a word to Arnold or Kirtland, they simply sailed around the plane and headed back to shore. It was some time later that a Coast Guard boat spotted the plane and came to pluck Arnold and Kirtland out of the sea, With their damaged aircraft on a tow rope behind them, they finally reached shore at the exact spot where, according to the monument in front of them, the Pilgrims had landed,  Although he continued flying in New York State and Connecticut National Guard maneuvers during the several weeks of his recovery, Arnold had a lot of time to think about the dangers of his new  Thomas M. Coffey * 54  Eleanor Pool, still a student in Berlin, opened a lette: parents shortly thereafter and found with it a New York Tin that announced Lt. Henry H. Arnold’s marvelous contribu advancement of aviation.'? She remembered him well, of cc the exchange of hand-waves at West Point in 1907, their fe subsequent meetings at home in Ardmore, and the two pleasa the summer of 1909 when they hiked in the Swiss Alps. B never entertained any romantic feelings about him. Now herself thinking differently about him. Not only was he an avi in 1912 was exciting enough in itself; he was suddenly a fam celebrated in The New York Times.  “T used to know that young man,” she said proudly to se" young women friends.  They scoffed and teased her. “You never saw him in you of them said  “I do know him,” she insisted. But would she ever see hit the autumn she would be g