id, it might  be neces: 4 cessary to send the second or third in command up the hill to  testify  The: z hen, staring coldly at Arnold, he issued a threat that could not be  misunderstood. As for officers who refused to ‘play ball” with th  there was a place where they might be sent called Guam.* Arnold had finally managed to possible superior, the commander-in-chief was several months before the I  administration, and it was  infuriate his highest Though he was not fired, it  resident agé m 4 ee again allowed him in the White  Arnold was a man who seemed to seek out trouble  and to work be: ee as est under pressure. As a boy he had learned to cope  with the requirements  Il * HAP  of a father more demanding even than he himself would later become, Indeed it was because of his father’s expectations rather than his own that he accepted his appointment to the Military Academy. And once he was securely in the Army, where he no longer had to cope with his father's pressure, he began to supply his own, creating it for himself by his refusal to accept conventional military wisdom, He was headstrong, often tactless, scornful of slow, conservative Army methods, critical of superiors, single-mindedly relentless in pushing his own beliefs, and impatient with those who failed to share his vision. Yet despite all this, he rose through the officer ranks as the years passed unul, in September 1938, he became chief of the Air Corps. To the surprise of many military men, including Arnold himself, the Army establishment proved itself sufficiently flexible and tolerant of his independence to advance him to the top.  How did he manage to climb so high? He must have been doing something right. Even the more conservative Army generals, many of whom had been involved in restraining or chastising him from time to time, would concede that much. Though he might defy them, he was able to make them admire him. Though he sometimes ignored their discipline, he knew how to maintain discipline am