h his second star restored) to command the Canal air defense. Andrews was appalled when he got there to learn that there wasn't any air defense worthy of the name. “I am not happy about our air situation here in Panama,” he wrote to Arnold. “If there were an air  raid, we would not be able to put up much of a show  What Andrews desperately needed was airplanes, but Arnold had none to offer. “Frankly I am worried about aircraft production,” he wrote in a January 22 reply. “We are leaning over backward to give  everything to the British . . . there will be no relief for several months.”  In a wistful, handwritten postscript he added, “All I can say 1s that we hope to get planes for everyone but at this writing it is only a hope.” Fortunately for Arnold and for the Air Corps, he was now getting important help from a new associate who had been unknown to him only a few months earlier. On November 7, 1940, at the instigation of Robert Patterson, Stimson had appointed Robert A, Lovett to a post of  y of war for air. Lovett, a wealthy  his own creation—assistant sect  Thomas M. Coffey 220  George Brett acting chief of Air Corps, he relinquished none of his control over the corps.)  A few weeks before Christmas, and approximately nine months after his banishment from the White House, Arnold was invited to a small dinner party there.** Arriving early, perhaps because the presi- dent had invited him early to allow time for a private chat, he found Roosevelt sitting beside a table loaded with cocktail fixings.  In his usual blithe and hearty manner, as if there had never been  the slightest misunderstanding between them, the president said to him,  “Good evening, Hap. How about my fixing you an Old Fashioned?”  He didn’t explain how he happened to know that it was Arnold's favorite drink. The general still drank only sparingly, but when he did, it was usually an Old Fashioned or some other sweet cocktail. The president, a good host, had apparently gone to the trouble of findin