g so far as to drop a heavy iron engine into his crib one day. Fortunately it had missed him. It was hard to believe she had done it purposely, yet Bee was worried about her and had begun watching her more closely. A few days before Hap was to leave for Europe, Lois also came down with influenza, but Bee assured him the child would be all right. She would have been happier to have him stay with her, yet she understood his compulsion to go and she had no intention of trying to stop him.**  The troopship on which Arnold sailed, the S.S. Olympia, was to leave New York on October 17 but he arrived there several days early to make On the thirteenth he was introduced to a  sure he wouldn't miss it. young flier he was destined to see much more of: Maj. Carl “Tooey” Spatz (later changed to Spaatz as a guide to pronunciation), who had just returned from France after shooting down two German planes. On the fourteenth, Arnold went to the theater, ran into Spatz again and met Mrs. Spatz, whom he had seen once before, at the Pool home in Ard- more, when she was a schoolgirl named Ruth Harrison and he was a  95 * HAP  young swain in the process of becoming engaged. After the theater, he returned to the Biltmore and got to bed early, about 11:30, feeling fine.  He awoke at 9:00 a.m. on the fifteenth with a headache, a cough, and pains throughout his body. Since New York was then in the throes of a virulent influenza epidemic (which would eventually sweep the country and kill almost a million people), his symptoms caused him some concern, but he began taking aspirin and as the day wore on, he gradually felt better. That night, the cough and the aches returned. The next day he felt “pretty bad,” and the following day, the seventeenth, he felt rotten as he boarded the Olympia, For the entire seven-day crossing he was in bed with fever and chest pains. When the ship docked at Southampton the night of the twenty-fourth at ten, an ambulance was waiting in the drizzle to take him to a tr