hen Arnold reached his apartment near Dupont Circle after returning to town by train the night of his first mishap, he had to answer several phone calls from reporters who wanted to know whether “the big flight to Frederick” had been a success. Each time he and Milling went to a restaurant, their fellow diners would point them out with remarks like, “There they are. They're the ones.” At the same time, the women they met seemed to find them increasingly attractive. Arnold gradually became accustomed to this without taking it too seriously. Still unpolished and not quite comfortable around women, he was nevertheless much less awkward and constricted than he had been, but he had not yet found a girl he liked as well as the cultured, wealthy, distant (in Germany), and unattainable Eleanor Pool  While Arnold very definitely felt the glamour of being an aviator during visits to Washington restaurants, or at parties, or even in the Army and Navy Club, where his colleagues had grudgingly to acknowl- edge the public excitement the airplane was beginning to generate, he knew during the long hours he spent at College Park that flying itself offered no glamour—only hard work and danger so frequent that it demanded every possible measure of mental alertness and preventive care. The maintenance of the aircraft, in particular, was a matter that couldn’t be taken for granted. He and Milling, unable to handle this themselves, realized that since their lives depended on the mechanics who did it, they had better make certain of their competence.'* Though the Signal Corps had been diligent in choosing the best possible mechanics for its Aviation Service, few of these men had even seen an airplane when they arrived at College Park. After long hours of discussion as to how they should be trained, Arnold and Milling decided to start them from scratch. Taking clear photographs of both the Wright and Curtiss planes, they labeled every part of each, including the most obvious. The photograp