s of shipping in the harbor and they've got a railroad and an airport. You'd better go over there and take them over.”  “Suits me,” Smith said. “  “I won't give you a letter, :  ve me a letter.”  " Arnold said. “Go over there, see what's wrong, and take care of it.”  Knowing Arnold, Smith went immediately to Dakar and made arrangements with the French governor general to assume control of the harbor, the railroad, and the airport, which he then undertook to enlarge. He hadn't been there long when he became aware of the real reason Arnold had sent him. An American admiral arrived one day with a representative of the State Department, apparently intent on doing for the Navy what Smith had already done for the Air Forces.  Smith had gone to bed early that night and was asleep when the State Department man came and told him that the admiral wanted to see him. The first thing the admiral said was, “I understand you've made quite a lot of engagements over here. Can I see the letter that authorizes you?  Smith said verbal instructions from General Arnold and I did just exactly what he  No, you can’t because there isn’t any letter. I have my  asked me to do.” “That's extraordinary behavior,” the admiral exclaimed. he said, “we came over here  Smith became impatient. “Well, look and took over this goddamned place and we're building an airfield here now. As long as I satisfy General Arnold, I think I'll get along pretty  Thomas M. Coffey 294  The first American heavy bomber group arrived in this country accompanied by its fighter group, together with some eighteen thousand American Air Force personnel as long ago as the € nd of July. By the end of September the number of American Air Force personnel has risen to about fifty-five thousand. So far the results have been pitifully small. Far from dropping bombs on Germany, American daylight bombers have not ventured beyond Lille  anwhile, the American public has been led to believe that a really serious contribution has been made