ight bombing.  6. U.S. planes and equipment were designed for day operations.  7. Day bombing would destroy Germany's fighters by exposing them to the B-17's twelve 50-caliber guns.  8. Americans could ignite obscure targets by day, which the R.A F could find at night by the light of the fires.  Eaker met Churchill at his villa, submitted his short brief, and talked to him for a half hour, after which Churchill indicated he would drop his case against day bombing, But just to make sure Churchill had been sufficiently bombarded by the American argument, Arnold also sent Spaatz and Frank Andrews to see him. (Andrews had succeeded  Thomas M. Coffey * 296  good in the military service, and when I don’t satisfy him I won't. If you've got any complaints about what I’ve done, take it up with him. I'm going back to bed.”  Arnold was both pleased and amused to learn all this from Smith. In Dakar, at least, he had moved fast enough to beat the Navy. He was slightly alarmed, though, at some of the information Smith had man- aged to pick up. For instance, Smith knew that President Roosevelt was arriving in Africa on the cruiser Memphis for a Casablanca conference with Churchill, and that Marshall and Arnold were on their way to the same conference, as was Admiral King. And from Casablanca, Arnold was off to China for a conference with Chiang Kai-shek. How had Smith learned all this? From Air Forces headquarters in Washington? Not at all. He had picked it up from gossipers on African A.T.C. lines. It made Arnold wonder about the American security system.  After arriving in Casablanca, Arnold himself heard some gossip that sounded like considerably more than gossip, and that alarmed him so much he immediately sent a cablegram to General Eaker in England, directing him to come as quickly as possible to Casablanca.* Eaker, who had become the Eighth Air Force commander when Spaatz went to North Africa as Eisenhower's air commander, was surprised to hear from Arnold in Africa. He kne