ortunity to study the aircraft industry from inside, to learn about its needs, its limitations, and its potential output  Arnold also cultivated, while at March, the friendship of the great California Institute of Technology scientist Dr. Robert Millikan, whom he had met in Washington during the World War. Millikan came to March one day and asked Arnold to help him with some cosmic-ray experiments."* Millikan wanted to conduct some tests in planes during flight, and Arnold provided the planes even though he didn’t quite understand the research. While he had a good grasp of technology, he did not have a scientific mind, nor the patience for the scientist's slow methods, and he often referred to scientists as “longhairs.” But Millikan  made him realize how important they could be in the development of technology, and he never forgot it  The Long Beach earthquake of March 10, 1  933, which was to get Arnold into trouble  again with higher authorities, also gave him an opportunity to know and cultivate a man who would be of pivotal importance to him five years later. When Col. Charles H  Hilton, the Fort MacArthur commandant  complained about Arnold sending a  151 * HAP  convoy of trucks loaded with government food and supplies to the quake  victims without his authorization, the man who received his complaint  was Gen. Malin Craig, commander of the Army's Ninth Corps Area, with headquarters in San Francisco. Craig was in command of both Hilton and Arnold. It was quite evident to him, after reading Hilton's report, that Arnold had indeed usurped Hilton's responsibility. Hilton, not Arnold, had been designated the disaster officer for Southern California. And Hilton was many years Arnold’s senior in rank. Arnold would have some explaining to do if he was to avoid at least a stiff reprimand.”  It was July 20 before all the reports were in and Craig summoned Arnold to San Francisco for an explanation. Meanwhile, the general had found another reason to be annoyed at Arnold.