tennis court, in the best part of town. Since Herbert Arnold was the most respected physician in the area, he was their family doctor, but he was not part of their social milieu. There were some aspects of the Pools’ way of life that he could hardly view with approval. Sidney Pool was the kind of jovial, convivial businessman who liked to gather his friends around him, tell some stories, have some fun, He made no secret of the fact that he liked an occasional drink. What was worse, so did his wife, Annie, who could be  charged with the additional sin of having sung in operas during her  3 HAP  earlier years. But despite such flaws, they were people of quality and high standing in the community, and it seemed to Dr. Arnold that their comely young daughter Eleanor would be quite suitable for his son Henry, who was about to achieve the socially acceptable status of an Amy officer  One day in March 1907, when Dr. Arnold was treating Eleanor Pool for a spring head cold, he decided the time was ripe for his son to meet her."* As he left the house, he casually mentioned to her mother that his own daughter, Betty, was planning a trip to West Point to visit Henry, Would Eleanor like to go along? The outing would be good for her, help her fight off her cold. Eleanor’s mother thought it an excellent idea, and so did Eleanor herself. The plans were set and one weekend in April, Eleanor Pool, chaperoned by Betty Arnold, who was seven years her senior, made her first trip to the academy. After a train trip to New York, they boarded a small, rinky-dink trolley that tootled up the right bank of the Hudson to the little station just below the West Point plateau. From there they rode up the hill in a horse-drawn hack to the only available lodging, the always-crowded West Point Hotel near Trophy Point, A small building, reputed once to have been General Washington's head- quarters, it became each weekend a swarming hive of young ladies, all from proper families and all well chaperoned