staterooms, their arguments would become serious and ominous, “After two or three drinks, the Englishmen became as rude as the Germans. Every- body knew a war was coming and both British and German knew he se of the thing was discussed and hashed over  couldn’t lose it. Every ph again, except the fact that the United States might be a factor.  “To the barking of the German officers regarding the superior condition of their army, the British officers, exchanging smiles, would inquire ironically, ‘What about the Royal Navy?  “The Germans would explode. ‘The British Navy is only a big  Thomas M. Coffey # 34  since earliest childhood. During that mapping expedition on Luzon, he threw himself completely into his work for the first time in his life. And after the task of mapping the Luzon Valley was completed, Captain Cowan retained him for the task of mapping Corregidor Island, which the Army already envisioned as an impregnable stronghold guarding Manila Bay  During his two years in the Philippines, Arnold never did return to his regiment, nor did he abandon his attempts to separate himself from it permanently, While he derived great satisfaction from his mapping work, admitting that it made his Philippine duty “unexpectedly excit- ing,” he still clung to his old Cavalry aspirations and kept spurring his father on to new efforts in the hope, however slim, of fulfilling them. Dr. Arnold, himself a Cavalry zealot, having once been attached to it, did not hesitate to call upon Army friends in his son's behalf. In late January 1909, when an old Cavalry associate, Charles M. Gandy, was promoted to lieutenant colonel, the doctor used the occasion to push the matter in a letter of congratulation. Colonel Gandy’s reply was cordial but not very helpful. “I am glad your boy enjoys his service,” he wrote on the eighth of February. “I am sorry that he did not get the Cavalry, since he wanted it and was entitled to it on his academic work, but he will undoubtedly If the boy sull pin