g people to think further ahead. This was what he did in the war, you know. He'd come out suddenly and call the industry leaders together. We'd be feeling pretty happy and contented with what we were doing, and Hap would say, “Well, this is fine, you're doing all right, but you've got to do better. We've got to have a bomber that's a hundred miles an hour faster. We've got to have a bomber that's got a thousand miles more range.”?!  One young officer, after meeting Arnold for the first time, said to a friend, “He operates at two thousand RPMs while everyone else is at one thousand.” The same was true of Mitchell, which might account partly for the affinity between them. Both men were often frustrated because others were unable to think and act as quickly as they did, and both  Thomas M, Coffey * 112  Pershing stayed only one day so the Arnolds were soon left with sradually,  their grief at the loss of John and their concern about Bruce. Bruce began to improve and by the end of summer, despite their loss, the Arnold family was living normally again  In 1923, California was not yet an aviation center. The important action was taking place, or at least being instituted, back East. On May 6, for instance, Lts, O. G. Kelly and John A. Macready took off from Mitchel Field, New York, and made the first nonstop transcontinental flight, landing before Arnold's eyes at Rockwell Field twenty-six hours and fifty minutes later. On August 22 in Dayton, Lt. H. R. Harris became the first man to fly the gigantic six-engine Barling bomber, which had been built at Billy Mitchell's insistence and was supposed to be able to carry a load of five tons, with a cruising radius of one thousand miles. (The largest airplane ever built in the United States up to that time, it was expected to prove every claim Mitchell was making for the airplane as an offensive weapon.) And on September 5, Mitchell put more fear into the Navy when his bombers, in another controlled test, sank the obsolete Ameri