rlier solved the P-38 training problem by adding a piggyback seat for  B ; endanger his life? instructors. He called North American president Dutch Kindelberger 8  Lee said, “Yes, Mr. President, it might. But he has asked me to point out that whenever his combat crews go on missions, they endanger their lives. He sees no reason why he shouldn't do so.”  and told him the Air Forces wanted to put three hundred more gallons of gasoline in the P-51  Kindelberger said, “Impossible!” The wings would not be strong R it i “E ki? aad Arnokd's dob’ simak oosevelt said, “Fair enough,” and Arnold's job was saved. Bu  Marshall called Dr. Lee every month thereafter for a report on Arnold's health. One Friday Arnold impatiently banged the button on his buzzer, as  enough and neither would the landing gear. “Have a P-51 on the line tomorrow morning at ten o'clock,” Giles said. “I'll fly out there tonight. And have some of your design engineers  there, too.” rears mare : he was wont to do, and got Maj. William F. “Bozo” McKee, one of eight  young Army officers Marshall had transferred to the Air Forces to help improve Arnold's staff. “Get down here immediately,” Arnold shouted  The next morning, after examining the plane, Giles said, “Take out the radio set behind the pilot and put in a hundred-gallon tank, Then  open up the wings and put in bulletproof tanks the entire length.” A : into the box.  McKee already knew him well enough to hurry. “I'm very much Arnold said. “I want an  Though Kindelberger and his engineers didn’t believe the plane could take such a load, Giles, who had been an aircraft engineering  concerned about the defense of North Africa,  officer for most of his career, was convinced it could. “Put the tanks in as 5 air defense plan, coordinated with the General Staff, and I want it by  soon as possible,” he said. “Then fill them with water and give the plane  Sunday.”**  a thorough test.” : Though McKee thought the job was too big to finish in two days, he  They di