, and asked him whom he would like to have as Arnold's successor in the Air Forces, Ike needed no time for discussion. He wanted Spaatz,  and Arnold agreed with him  Conference, attended by Stalin, and  The Potsdam Truman,  Churchill, with Clement Attlee replacing Churchill as British prime  Thomas M. Coffey ® 370  seemed to him there was a logjam in the existing ports, which were  crowded with ships waiting to be unloaded. Concerned about this, he  flew back to Guam for more conferences with Nimitz, who graciously  promised him that everything would move along on schedule. Thus  reassured, he flew back to San Francisco (via Eniwetok, Johnson Island, a  and Hawaii), arriving there on June 25, his birthday.  Bee and Lois were both on hand to greet him with birthday celebration plans all set, but alas for Bee, her husband’s career foiled her again as it had done so often through the years.”* It was understandable that she should lose her patience. It was not always easy to live with Hap and his Air Forces. This time it was the president of the United States  who foreclosed his birthday celebration. Harry Truman also arrived in  San Francisco on June 25, and Arnold had to attend an official dinner  that night. By the following evening he was out of the family doghouse and the celebration of his fifty-ninth birthday took place at the ranch, one day late, After a few days there together, he and Bee flew home to Washington in time to see Dave off for West Point the following Sunday.  Arnold stayed less than two weeks in Washington this time before flying to Europe on July 11, for the Potsdam Conference. After a day's fishing in Canada and a short stop in Paris, he and his party, which included Fred Dean and Lauris Norstad, arrived in Berchtesgaden on the fourteenth, where Arnold occupied Himmler's hotel suite and rode around in an open touring car that had belonged to the late Adolf Hitler.** Arnold had come there primarily to find Hank, whose unit was supposed to be stat