ng room, still in some distress but making little of his condition. Fliers, for fear of being grounded, don’t like to advertise their illnesses—especially illnesses which resemble heart attacks. If the medical officer believed he had suffered a heart attack, he didn’t say so. Not long after that, however, Arnold began flying bombers more frequently than fighters. In a bomber, there was usually a second pilot to take the controls if necessar  A few months after Arnold's meeting with Malin Craig in San Francisco, the general kept his promise to visit March Field. He flew south to watch a mass maneuver by the fighter and bomber groups under Arnold’s command. He was so pleased, not only by the aerial display but also by the Southern California golf courses to which Arnold  took him, that he made several more trips thereafter, the last one coming on a very auspicious occasion in 1935. Craig was then on his way to Washington to become the Army Chief of Staff, replacing Douglas MacArthur. By that time, C because Arnold, in sending relief supplies to Long Beach without authorization, had defied the Army regulations so dear to Craig.  ig and Arnold were firm friends, all  Thomas M. Coffey * 152  P-12 fighter plane that he had had assigned to him, with Lt. Eugene H Beebe on his wing in another P-12.% He had explained to Beebe that he ‘min  had some important business with General Craig at the Presidio. trouble up there,” he said. “Some of Craig’s colonels are trying to court-martial me.” But if Arnold was truly worried, he didn’t show it. He was so cavalier about the matter that Beebe, unfamiliar with all the  circumstances, didn't take the situation seriously. Though Arnold scarcely knew Craig, Beebe got the impression they must be old friends, especially when Arnold, with Beebe still on his wing, buzzed the tower at Crissy Field. As Beebe knew, Craig had strict rules against buzzing.  When they landed, two military policemen were waiting to put them under arrest and, in acc