aurence Kuter— Air Forces. lt would defend  It would support de v PE the fensive strategy in the F ic during the initial phases of the w  the air over the Western Hemisphere  ar if both Japan  2383 * HAP  and Germany became adversaries. It would wage an unlimit- ed strategic air offensive against Germany as soon as possible, including support for an invasion of the European continent. And finally it would soften Japan for invasion by waging an unlimited strategic air offensive against its homeland. The document added hopefully that with regard to both Germany and Japan, “If the air offensive is successful, a land offensive may not be necessary.”'*  The inclusion of Japan as well as Germany in this theoretical wat  plan was a result of aggressive Japanese expansion policies in the Far East. From the day they invaded China in 1931, the Japanese had been regarded by the United States as a potential enemy. The China cam-  paign (still in progress ten years later); the notorious Axis Pact between  Japan, Germany, and Italy; the massive enlargement of Japan’s army and navy; and the growing possibility that the Japanese might try to capture the oil fields of the Dutch East Indies made it imperative that the United States prepare contingency plans to stop them. If Japan were to conquer all or even most of East Asia, Amer ican interests there would be seriously threatened  In August 1941, Stimson, Marshall, Lovett, and Arnold all ap-  proved the plan, and in September, President Roosevelt accepted it,  incorporating its key features into his own calculations of what would be needed to defeat the Axis powers. The special strategic mission of the Army’s air arm was at last formally recognized. Arnold now had concrete authorization to build openly, without hindrance from Army ground generals, the kind of air force he had been trying to build for the last three years.  Still smarting at the British remarks about the B-17 in combat, he sent Gen. George Brett to London to find out