know and understand modern  warfare."”  The next day, before Arnold's flight to the Pacific, Marshall called him in and gave him some fatherly advice. When he got out there into  287 ¢ HAP  that unfriendly naval atmosphere, he should first of all listen. He should not get mad. And he should “let the other fellow tell his story.”  Arnold flew to Hawaii on September 21, to talk with Nimitz at Pearl Harbor, The cool, shrewd Navy commander of the entire Pacific was surprisingly optimistic and quite convinced that Guadalcanal could be held, He said the Japanese had only half as many men there as the Americans, and their shipping losses had been prohibitive, Within the past two or three months, including the Battle of Midway, they had also Jost 650 planes. The bombardment of Germany, he said, was “of no use." The war could be won in the Pacific  On the twenty-third, Arnold and his party, which included Col. Charles Cabell, landed at New Caledonia (south of the Solomons and cast of Australia), where Admiral Ghormley had established his head- quarters on his flagship. Ghor miley and his air strategist, Adm, John §. McCain, were awaiting Arnold with what seemed to him “blood in their eyes.”  This was his theater, Ghormley informed Arnold, and nobody was going to tell him how to run it,  Arnold, perhaps recalling Marshall's advice, held his temper. All he wanted, he said, was some information. The personal tension seemed to him to ease after that, but he still felt Ghormley showed the strain of the military situation. He had been so busy, the admiral said, he hadn't been able to leave his headquarters for about a month,  Marshall or no Marshall, Arnold wasn't going to let such an opportunity pass. Maybe that was the cause of some of Ghormley’s troubles, he suggested. No man could sit continuously in a small office, fighting a war, “without suffering mentally, physically and nervously."  Ghormley’s immediate concern was logistics. He had eighty ships in the harbor at New Caled