ge of money was always a more immediate problem: by payday he was usually broke. As soon as he received his pay he would gather the family and drive to the nearest town, Junction City, where he would go from shop to shop paying all the debts he had accumulated From Junction City they would drive the seventy miles to Kansas City, where they did the bulk of their shopping because the prices were lower and the selection greater. When all the shopping was done, Arnold would count the money in his pocket and decide, yes, they did have enough left to afford dinner at Wolfermans’ For a short period during their stay at Riley those dinners at Wolfermans’ were especially welcome events because Bee was forced  131 * HAP  temporarily to do the cooking at home herself, and there was common agreement within the family that she had no business in the kitchen, She had very little experience as a cook and didn't want any more. Shortly after their arrival the Arnolds had hired the wife of a sergeant, a young woman who could cook acceptably, was quite reliable, and was also fairly attractive.  One morning Hap came down to breakfast at his usual time, six-thirty, and found her nowhere in sight. In addition, the house was frigid—which wasn’t the cook’s fault. They had hired a striker to stoke the furnace and, to make sure he would be there to do so, had built a cozy room for him in the basement. When Arnold went down to find out why there was no heat in the house, he also found out why there was no breakfast on the table. The cook and the striker were naked together on his bed, obviously unconcerned either about food or about the chilliness of the air around them."*  Here was an aspect of life that Arnold had never known how to confront. The very mention of sex embarrassed him. Though his language was often profane, it was seldom earthy or obscene. He had been taught as a boy that bodily functions were unmentionable, and he was so uncomfortable mentioning them that he would usually res