enger. The men were to stage a flying exhibition for the benefit of the Army's acting chief signal officer, Col. George P. Scriven, who was visiting College Park to assess the progress of his young fledglings. Rockwell had completed his perform-  ance and was letting down to land in front of the hangar line when his  engine suddenly roared as if the throttle had been pushed full forward (an unlikely possibility under the circumstances) and the plane plunged to earth at maximum speed, killing both Rockwell and Scott. This was only one of many accidents Arnold knew about but was unable to explain. It was beginning to look as if airplanes, like people, had minds of their own and were subject to similar self-destructive urges.  None of this had any apparent effect on Arnold's skill as a pilot or  * HAP  his enthusiasm for flying. He seemed able to suppress any misgivings about the fate that might await him if he continued to fly (misgivings held by most pilots of the time) by dreaming of the marvelous air age to which he was helping give birth, Already he was beginning to envision big, fast airplanes that would carry passengers from city to city and, in time of wa  r, dominate the battlefields with bombs and machine guns. (Milling and Chandler, at College Park, had already experimented I, Isaac . Lewis, and though the War Department rejected it—because Ord- nance had already chosen the heavier Benet-Mercier model, ideal for ground operations, and saw no need to buy two kinds of machine guns—there was no doubt in Arnold’s mind that such weapons would soon have to be mounted on planes.) His vision of the future of aviation  successfully with the famous aerial machine gun invented by G  as well as his accomplishments—especially in setting altitude records —had made him so prominent that first the press and then other air enthusiasts had begun to solicit his opinions  One day in the summer of 1912, “a sharp-faced, cager young captain” attached to the General Staff came to s