ossible targets for the bomb and the matter of timing. The president accepted Arnold's suggestion that Spaatz, whose planes would deliver the bomb, be given a list of four targets—Hiroshima, Kokura, Niigata, and Nagasaki—and he should then be offered “some latitude as to when and on which of the four targets the bomb would be dropped.” Thus the decision was made, and  Arnold was part of it  While he was in Potsdam, Arnold wrote to Bee almost daily—warm and loving “My darling Beetle” letters, solicitous about her health. He was especially worried about her weight, which had been much too low for some time. “I haven't heard from you and hope that you are putting on those 25 pounds,” he wrote on July 22. “I want a couple of more curves. How about it? I miss you a lot.” And two days later, he repeated the same theme: “Hope to see you soon with the additional 25 pounds.”  As a result of her Air Forces relief work, for which she had earned universal praise, the Royal Air Force had invited her to England to inspect its benevolent fund and suggest ways to improve it in accordance with what she had helped to accomplish at home. The U.S. Army Air Forces was in the process of creating an agency to take care of the widows and orphans of airmen. Sir Charles Portal spoke to Arnold several times in Potsdam about her proposed trip and how eager he was to have her come, but the plans had developed a snag she couldn't circumvent. The Army had a wartime regulation prohibiting the wife of any officer or enlisted man from visiting the theater in which he was stationed. The purpose of the regulation was obvious. Since it would be impossible and  insane to have all servicemen take their wives into the war zones, there  Lloegr inl abntlealy  ond ola ee tla ls ly dct fat ome ge feel bay dat inal yea a iu Dh ete an od  ‘eluagvl esd lata idm i iri soln Sonnanstine ily ds msl i: ch “pions Rit  tian  tunnel in woli  end oan iad lukas ike anh, lela enon wal el lod  dpb i bh  iT bl  evap nga pa l