t go at any moment—ez *i\itint new attack further weakened the tissues of his heart—yet he seld« Molltsyulia talked about the prospect of death, and he refused to sit still in an eff Copa to preserve his strength. He had said one day to his son, Bruce, “It's h "yo to be sick. They want to keep me alive by wrapping me in cotton a sala placing me in a glass case, but I'll be goddamned if I'll let them,” > | !ttinétuiy continued his writing and he continued as best he could to look after | iuhwitk property. The day after his telegram to the Britannica, he walked do ge the hill to Simmons’s house to outline the work he planned for the nc morning. The two of them would go into a fairly level part of the hi land where something needed to be done  “What time?” Simmons asked.  “About six or six-thirty.”  Sofa abtani  ‘wigrbtengbit ion manne “My God, General, tomorrow's Sunday. Can't we wait till eight olin eight-thirty?” hw No. General Arnold was not accustomed to starting any day tk iin late. But this time the question was to become moot. Early the ne "!#eluan morning he awoke and said something to his wife, who was still hy "itn asleep. A few minutes later he was dead at the age of sixty-four elbhoua shia  ion  During forty-one years of active service in the U.S. Army and 4 “ltl iligiih Force, he had compiled a record unparalleled in military histoi ivan and Universally acknowledged as the father of the modern American 4 MMi Force, he had taken charge of the then Army Air Corps in 1938, when ‘hc was a puny collection of twenty thousand men and a few hundn “tliat less-than-battleworthy planes. By 1944, under the whip of his comp ‘iilayka,  ‘lh my  1 i  ling, relentless, and often unreasonable dynamism, it had grown into organization of 2.4 million men and eighty thousand aircraft. Nev “ before or since has a military machine of such size and technical cor plexity been created in so short a period. At the height of World War. "!*ky Arnold commanded the largest, mightiest ai