round. As they soon learned, her smile concealed a strong will, She was the one person in Arnold's office who showed no fear of the general. When she got angry at him, she would refuse to speak to him, and he would send Simmons for a box of candy to pacify her. She was apparently quick to sense the difficulty he had dealing with women. She didn't hesitate to differ with him. Yet she would not allow anyone else to say a word against him. Simmons believed that “she loved that man,” and that Arnold, in his way, loved her, though nothing improper ever passed between them. Arnold once remarked to Simmons that she was “as smart as some of the damned generals.”  By this time Arnold was virtually losing his ability to function as a pilot, not only because he was so busy, but also because, when he became Air Corps chief, General Craig had decreed that as long as he held that job he would not again fly alone or in a single-engine plane. Having just lost General Westover in the crash of a single-engine plane he was flying himself, Craig had decided he didn’t want to lose another Air Corps chief, He had told Arnold to choose a personal pilot and keep him on hand. Arnold chose Capt. Eugene Beebe, with whom he had often flown at March Field, but who had then gone to Wright Field to become a  bombardment project officer.* As soon as Beebe reported for duty in Washington, Arnold had introduced him to Craig, who told him, “Son, your main job is to keep Hap alive. You'd better do it.” When they weren't flying, Beebe occupied a desk in Arnold's office and helped with administrative matters  Though Arnold acknowledged the benefits of foreign orders in hastening the expansion of U.S. aircraft plants, he was quite unaware in 1940 of another benefit, which was destined to become tangible in late  19 just when he desperately needed it. In April 1940, the British  215 HAP  Purchasing Commission, headed by Air Marshall Arthur T, Harris, approached North American Aviation president J. H. “Dut