d not abandoned all of the Mennonite tenets, one of which was that everyone should learn, at  an early age, to work. He had, however, abandoned another tenet of the Mennonites at that time—that six or seven years of education were enough for anybody because no more than that was necessary to make aman a good farmer. Herbert, Thomas's son, attended the Norristown public schools and was graduated from the high school there in 1873 When he expressed a desire to study medicine, his father did not discourage him. Since it was customary at that time and place to begin such study under the tutelage of an established physician, he appren- ticed himself to Dr. Joseph K. Weaver of Norristown, then completed his  studies at Jefferson Medical College, from which  he was graduated in 1878 d  After practicing for a year in Evansburg, he opened an office at  Gladwyne, where he also bought a farm, and where Henry H. Arnold was born on June 25, 1886  Henry was the third child and second son children. Because Dr. Arnold, like his father, Tetained many strict Mennonite standards despite his conversion to the Baptist faith, his  house was not a free-and-easy, fun-filled place for his growing children At all times a stern, exacting man,  arley  in a family of five  he strenuously disapproved of any kind of play, either for children or adults,  nor did he suffe: ke: lighthearted banter eke a  The main purpose of life was salvation, and the  road to salvation was work, of which he demanded as mut h from himself  13 HAP  as from others. His first child, Elizabeth, who was four years older than his first son, Thomas, and six years older than Henry, had the job of watching over the boys and restraining their high spirits, which she did with efficiency and some degree of officiousness. (She handled her assignment so zealously, in fact, that as the boys grew older she became protective, especially of Henry, to the point of being almost possessive, a circumstance from which he constantly strugg