d  “You're going to England. I want you to fly over there and  said to hir  Thomas M. Coffey 90  and treated him to a convincing display of emotional heat. The result was a cipher telegram from Harris to Portal, dated January 29, 1942, and marked “Most Secret”:  Arnold asks me to tell you that so far as he can judge at present he aims to get up to 20 heavy bomber groups into U.K. this year  But this is likely to be adversely affected by certain tendencies now growing in force e.g. in spite of lip service to the agreed grand strategy the Far East looms ever larger and more insistently in the thoughts of the highest ones in the land. Added to this the Navy has now realized the limitations of the flying boat and covets the heavy bomber in quantity. Recent successes against Jap. ships lend weight to their case and in any event they have always opposed the bomber plan by fair means or foul Our proposal to sidetrack 250 B-17s to Coastal Command has made the airmen here very hot under the collar. “We are thereby playing straight into the Navy's hands,” As to what he wants you to do about it Arnold was not clear, but in general he expressed an urgent desire that you should fight every proposed diversion of H.B.s [Heavy Bombers] from the bomber force and from direct action against German territory backing in the fight against diversion  He implores your  “Diversion” was a cry which would often arise from the U.S. Army Air Forces during the next two years. The British could always be depended upon to help Arnold fight the Navy's efforts to divert heavy bombers to the Pacific. But in some of Arnold’s other struggles against diversion they were not so helpful. On February 19, Portal wrote Arnold a soothing letter that neither settled nor promised anything. Despite its friendly tone, this letter pointed out to Arnold that the B-17’s bomb load “is less than that of the B-24 and our own heavy bombers, and  consequently its diversion to a Coastal Command role involves the least los