ts at home. The Snowdens, Hank discovered, held a party every night. The drinking was so heavy and the noise so loud that the police would sometimes drop in uninvited, but Ernie always seemed able to charm them. Or at least almost always. One night, his commanding officer, a party guest, was arrested, and the Snowdens, to avoid the same fate, had to flee up the coast to Laguna Beach. But they were back home the next night for another party  One day while flying, Ernie ran out of gas and made a forced landing in the ocean. When the Navy informed Lois that his plane was down at sea, she sought immediate solace from a bottle. Ernie was rescued and returned home at 2:00 a.m., whereupon they drank together until dawn, when he went off to fly again. For Hank, it was a sobering summer.”  In the summer of 1938, a change occurred in the Army General Staff that was auspicious not only for Arnold and for air power, but for the entire nation in the years that followed: Brig. Gen, George C. Marshall became assistant chief of staff. Marshall was not at that time an air-power advocate, but he was a man with such remarkable insight and such an open, probing, all-encompassing mind that Arnold knew he now had a potential ally, or at least a man to whom he could “talk business.” No one had to tell Arnold about the qualities of this unique soldier. Here was the same George Marshall of whom Arnold had said, in the Philippines in 1914, “That man will one day be the Army Staff.”  Arnold said later that when Marshall arrived “he needed plenty of indoctrination about the facts of air life. The difference in George, who presently was to become one of the most potent forces behind the development of a real American air power, was his ability to digest what he saw and make it a part of as str  ief of  ng a body of military genius as I have ever known  Arnold’s evaluation of Marshall's military genius is one that many military experts now share. Perhaps because he did most of his work during Wo