-seven first pilots by the beginning of 1944°  At the Cairo Conference, after Chiang Kai-shek agreed to build B-29 bases in time for their expected April 15 arrival (two months before they were scheduled to go into combat), Arnold thought he had at least taken care of that aspect of the operation. But on his return home, he learned from his own sources in China that Chiang, while acknowledging his promise, couldn’t get excited about the time clement involved, The days were passing and no one in China was recruiting coolies to work on the runways, which would have to be built entirely by  hand labor.t Someone would have to go over there and get things moving. The logical choice for the task was K. B. Wolfe, who now knew more about the needs of B-29s than anyone else. So Arnold sent him. But unfortunately, Wolfe was also needed in Kansas, where the new B-29s were being prepared for operations and the crews were being trained  Arnold must have been getting tired of the very mention of B-29s when, one day in January, Rosie O'Donnell, now chief of Arnold's council, came in and told him he wanted to fly one of them. Arnold needed him in Washington and didn't want to let him go. O'Donnell had already had combat experience in the Philippines in the early days of the war, but he wanted more, and he was not afraid to talk back to the boss. Arnold admired him for that. On this occasion, O'Donnell went even further. As the argument became heated, Arnold picked up a paper- weight and threw it at him. Rosie, an ex-football star and good athlete, caught it and threw it back to him  When Arnold went home that night he had a gash on his forehead “Oh, that Rosie!” he exclaimed to his son David, who asked him what had happened.’ But shortly thereafter, Rosie O'Donnell got his wish. He took command of the 73rd Wing of what would soon become the Twentieth Air Force, and headed for Kansas to learn how to fly the Superfortress  Arnold found time in January to fly to California for his fir