me to know that I am very outspoken. I say what I think and do what I think best, so when you hear these rumors, comments, criticisms or what-have-you, always remember that if there is anything serious you will be the first one to hear of it and it will come from me direct  w  1  3  HAP  Thomas M. Coffey * 316  1 am willing to do anything possible to build up your forces but you must play your part. My wire was sent to you to get you to toughen up—to can these fellows who cannot produce—to put in youngsters who can carry the ball You have to be tough to handle the  situation  On June 28 Arnold sent Eaker another cable blaming him for being aker exploded in a  so slow to fire his fighter commander. The next day, five-page letter to his old friend. He hadn't relieved his bomber and fighter commanders earlier, he said, because he didn’t have proper replacements. Now he had found the men he wanted. Brig Gen. Fred L. Anderson would be the new bomber commander and Maj. Gen. William Kepner would be the fighter commander. For air service commander, he would be glad to have Hugh Knerr. (It proved to be an excellent choice. Knerr did the job so well he was a major general by the end of the war. But unfortunately, his estrangement from Arnold, who had recommended him, was never resolved.)  Having got the business end of his letter out of the way, Eaker turned to his personal relations with Arnold:  I have always felt the closest bond of friendship between us as two individuals. I have never thought that you placed quite the confi- dence in me officially as an officer, as you did as a friend, I sometimes thought that you were tough on me officially in order to make certain that nobody had a feeling that I got the positions I held through our personal friendship, and to make doubly sure that you did not allow that friendship to influence you unduly toward me officially I shall always accept gladly and in the proper spirit, any advice, council or criticism from you, I do not feel