else for an order he gave to a subordinate.  The Arnolds had a quiet and lonely Christmas that year. Only Dave was at home, and he was growing up so fast he wasn’t there very much But Bee was more congenial than she had been lately, and they both had the ranch to celebrate. It was a hilly, forty-acre “spread” with an old house and barn in the beautiful Valley of the Moon near Sonoma, about forty-five miles north of San Francisco. Bee loved it and Hap expected to love it as soon as he could get to California to see it. He was planning a trip to the coast in early January but meanwhile, he needed to sit down someplace and rest. He decided on Florida for a few days after Christmas and Bee agreed to go with him. That was as good a Christmas present as the ranch. They sat in the sun together and got along the way they used to in the old days  Thomas M. Coffey # 332 It has been decided that an American will take over command of the Allied Air Force in the Mediterranean. period of successful operations and the exceptional results of your endeavors as Commander of the Air Force in England, you have been recommended for this position  As a result of your long  Eaker’s shock at this totally unexpected news was followed by fury. Having accepted Arnold's impatient insistence on more action during all the months when his bombers were being diverted elsewhere and his pleas for long-range fighters were going unanswered, he couldn't conceive of the Eighth Air Force being taken from him now that his B-17 fleet was beginning to expand and the P-51s were arriving to defend it. On the nineteenth, he fired off a cable to Arnold that gave notice of his intention to fight for his job:  Believe war interest best served by my retention command 8th Air Force: otherwise experience this theater for nearly two years wasted. If I am to be allowed any personal preference, having started with the Eighth and seen it organized for major task in this theater it would be heart-breaking to leave just b