luck, win one of the soldier appointments, then enter the academy whether his father liked it or not  When he called home to announce proudly that he had enlisted, his father, still angry and disappointed, said, “It better not be the Air Corps.”  Suddenly Bruce became just as angry. “I wouldn't be in your  goddamned lousy outfit,” he yelled, and slammed down the receiver.  A week later, his father, apparently feeling some remorse but not quite able to unbend enough to admit it openly, sent another officer to talk to Bruce. “He wants to know what he can do for you,” the officer said.  “You can tell him,” Bruce said, “that what I want him to do for me is to leave me to hell alone.”  Arnold seemed to sense now that he had better back off and let the young man find his own way in the world He may also have begun to  sense that he was paying a penalty for his career, which had kept him  203 HAP  e : they were g z up; away from his children so much of the time while they were growing S. but even if he did sense this there was very little he could do about it. His  S 2 = ore than career was now taking so much of his time it separated him mor  ever from his family  Thomas M. Coffey 2  >  sent to a branch of the service his father loathed. If he was not welcome in his father’s branch, it must mean that, for some reason, his father was rejecting him.  As he prepared to leave the Naval Academy, depressed and miserable, he wasn’t sure what to think of himself. It seemed that whenever he had failed at something in the past, his father had said not “I'm sorry,” but “What the hell are you going to do now?” Less than cager to hear that again, Bruce decided not to return to Washington  His father, anticipating this possibility, sent an aide to sce him. ‘I cs aide, a captain, was sympathetic to the young man because he too had once left the Naval Academy under similar circumstances. “I'll es you're getting ready to sign onto a ship,” he said to Bruce. “That's what I almost did.”  Bru