, in December 1918, the General Staff had presented that post to another ground soldier, Maj. Gen. C. T. Menoher of the Infantry, and he intended to keep it, leaving Mitchell with a very subordinate role as his assistant. It might be argued that this was Mitchell's own fault, that if he had wanted the job he should have hurried home to fight for it, as Arnold had advised, But the General Staff knew all there was to know about Mitchell, whether he was at home or in Europe, and the fact that  they chose someone else was interpreted as a sign that they didn't share his ideas and out of the public eye.  Arnold, who had been disappointed to see Mitchell pa: dismayed to see the chief 's job go to another man who was  ited to keep him as much as possible out of power and  d over, was  without any aviation experience or qualifications." Menoher’s appointment, com bined with the drastic cutbacks in Air Service personnel and budg deepened his pessimism about the future of Army aviation  Thomas M. Coffey * 98  and the Aviation Section, But none of the changes up to May 1918 had been substantive. They were simply the results of or ganizational reshuf- fling within the Signal Corps. The detachment of the air arm from the Signal Corps in May 1918, however, apparently represented a significant step forward, acknowledging the vital importance of aircraft and creating a separate Air Service. By this time, its size had escalated to more than 150,000 men, and though that was because of the war, it seemed inevitable that even when the war ended, the Air Service would assume a place in the new Army almost equal to that of the Infantry. It would certainly end up ahead of the Cavalry, which tanks and trucks, as well as airplanes, had made indisputably obsolete.  The demobilization orders handed down shortly after the armistice made it obvious that the men who governed the Army did not share these assumptions. While they didn't relegate the Air Service to its previous insignificant status,