new his man well, and in the even prevailed. Arnold decided to go only as far as Italy, observe U there, then return home via South America  Before he left Cannes, he talked to Spaatz and Eaker ; Eaker would have to do when he got to Washington, Differ:  among these old friends and the discussion became so heated said, “I didn’t ask to go to Washington.”"*  Whether he knew it or not, he had touched a sore sp: reminded Arnold of one of the great frustrations of his lif that although his career as a soldier had spanned two world w never commanded troops under fire.  “Who in the hell ever did ask to go to Washingtor shouted. “Do you think I asked to go there and stay there for Someone has to run the Army Air Forces. We can’t all be in cc combat air forces all around the world.”  Spaatz quickly stepped in and restored calm, but as ust    367 HAP  projects, hired an architect to draw plans for the house he envisioned  there, and sent a complete report about the place to Bee  367 * HAP  projects, hired an architect to draw plans for the house he envisioned there, and sent a complete report about the place to Bee  “I am counting on meeting you here on my return trip,” he reminded her. “Bring the plans of the house and anything else that you need to climb up the hill and spend a couple or three days in this delightful place.""* He left no doubt about his intention to spend the days and years of his retirement there. In conclusion, he regretted that her trip to meet him would “conflict with Dave's departure.” Their youngest son, David Lee, was entering West Point that summer. If and when they did move to the ranch, there would be just the two of them.  After a day in Honolulu, Arnold and his party reached Saipan on June 12, in time for dinner with Barney Giles, Curt LeMay, and Rosie O'Donnell. While he was there, he was able to watch 520 of his Superfortresses take off for Osaka with 3,000 tons of bombs in their bellies. He noted the contrast between those 520 four-engine gi