vor more than anything else was the grow- ing evidence, now that Hitler had conquered the European continent, that Arnold had been right to insist that the Army Air Corps needed planes as urgently as did France and England. Despite all the planes Morgenthau had sent to those countries, France was now totally de- feated and England was almost helplessly awaiting invasion, while the United States, after the talk about 50,000 planes a year, had on hand 250 fighters ready to defend her  only 49 heavy bombers and perhaps shores.  In October, when Marshall wanted to appoint Arnold deputy chief of staff (for air), making him the first air man ever Co sit so high on the General Staff, Roosevelt raised no objection Arnold received the  promotion on October 30. (Though he then appointed Maj. Gen  Thomas M. Co  218  the Army reserve and was serving a two-week stint as a private in a training camp when he was named assistant secretary of war. It was surely the most rapid promotion in the history of the U.S. Army  Arnold pointed out to Stimson and Patterson that if “the policy of  giving the British priority over all deliveries” was continued, he couldn't promise to meet his 1941 and 1942 schedules for Air Corps expansion The English now had so many engines on order, for instance, that within  a short time they would be getting 1,500 American engines a month  while the U.S. Army and Navy combined would be getting only 500. Already, thanks to a decree the previous day by Secretary Morgenthau “every other Allison engine from now on” would go to the British, and it was the Allison engine that powered the P-40. While the P-40 was  beginning to look inadequate compared to some of the new European fighter plz  tes, it was sull the best plane the United States had Pattersor  at first defended the Morgenthau policy. By giving this equipr  ent to the British, he said, the United States was helping them overcome the Germans, so that we might avoid the necessity of having to  make use of t