tening to Early, said, “Well, if Arnold won't  conform, maybe we will have to move him out of town.”  As Morgenthau described it, this private mecting between the president, Early, Watson, and himself ended with the president saying in very forceful language “that Johnson has to announce that he likes this [Treasury Department procurement] board; he likes to have Secretary Morgenthau in charge of it; and that it is functioning well and that he and Arnold are going to conform.”  Furthermore, he instructed Early to tell Johnson that “from now on [there is to be] no publicity from the War Department except from the central bureau, and that Arnold has to keep his mouth shut.”  By four o'clock, after this meeting and the larger meeting at which Arnold received his threatening lectur  . Morgenthau was so elated that when he returned to his office he said to members of his staff, “Oh, boy, did General Arnold get it!”  Arnold himself, in a memorandum of record the next day, said, “It was a party at which the Secretary of War and the Chief of Air Corps were to be spanked, and were spanked.”  Once again Arnold had miscalculated how far he could go in resisting a superior, and once again, though it was not announced to him, he was in a kind of exile. As the weeks passed, he noticed that he was no longer invited to the White House, even for meetings which concerned the Air Corps  When Arnold went home after his dressing-down by the president, he was so pessimistic he told Bee she had better get ready to pack their belongings.” And he had reason to talk that way. Any time a president of the United States threatens to send one of his generals to Guam, it is no joke. Arnold’s job was undoubtedly in jeopardy. His authority had been seriously impaired, yet his responsibility—to expand the Air and prepare it for a possible war—remained the same.  rps  nd he could get  213. = HAP  little help or comfort from Secretary of War Woodring or his assistant, Louis Johnson, because they thems