y that Roosevelt and Churchill had scheduled a two-power conference, to begin officially January 14, at the sunny French Moroccan port of Casablanca  When Arnold left Washington for this conference on January 9, with the rest of the American contingent, he didn’t know what surprises Churchill might be planning. Had he been privy to some of the communications between Churchill and his top military men in recent months, he might have been better prepared for what was to take place at Casablanca.  In an October  22, 1942, “Note on Air Policy,” Churchill had  written  The utmost pressure must be put upon the L nited States authorities “rica to utilize their Fortresses and Liberators in  here and in An  support of our sea communications during ‘Torch. .. . At present the United States are perservering with the idea of the daylight bombing of Germany . . . without escort. So far they had not gone  escort, They will probably  beyond the limits of strong British fighter experience a heavy disaster as soon as they do. We must try to persuade them to divert these energies (a) to sea work, beginning  with helping Torch, . .. and (b) to night work, . .. We should urge them to build Lancasters [the best of the British four-engine bombers] for us.... We should urge the development of the  Mustang with the engines. It would be much better if they could be induced to build 70,000 aircraft of the right kind in 1943 than a hundred thousand of those they are now projecting.  In a “Most Secret” November 2 memorandum to Portal, Churchill  had written  993  defenses bombing > to send  las C-54 tin West A.T.C. id had :velop an A day idor and  n  yot to do atrol, the ling place d there's y've gota  em over.” see what's  nd made ontrol of ertook to if the real e day with  doing for  when the ited to see i've made  wuthorizes  I have my y what he  over here rfield here  ng pretty  Thomas M, Coffey * 294  The first American heavy bomber group arrived in this country accompanied by its fighter