entrance. Spaatz leaped to his feet and, while everyone in on the joke was laughing, ran for the kitchen. But as soon as the joke was over, Arnold found out it had been on himself rather than Spaatz. Tooey had destroyed the evidence of drinking by pouring the liquor down the sink. And it was Arnold's liquor  Both Spaatz and Arnold were frustrated in those years by the circumstances that kept them in California while the important action in the campaign for air power was elsewhere. In the summer of 1921,  Mitchell had finally goaded the Navy into an aerial bomb exercise and  Thomas M. Coffey * 106  Arnold’s home life throughout this period was quite serene. The California climate relieved Bee's recurring hay fever and she was generally in good health. Their three older children, Lois, Hank, and Billy Bruce, were full of life. Hap used to sit on the porch of their Presidio quarters in the evening and watch them play. They liked to show off in front of him, putting tin cans on their heads and shouting “Happy Hooligan!” in imitation of one of the popular children’s comics of the day, Hap was beginning to be weight-conscious because, while he had given up drinking, he hadn't given up sweet desserts. If the kids wanted jam or jelly on their bread, they soon learned to grab it quickly because they knew that when he said “Pass the jam,” he was capable of upending the jar  In the evening, he and Bee would play cribbage, or, if friends came over, they might all sit on the front porch and sing songs. This could be painful to the friends and the neighbors because, while Hap loved to sing, he couldn't carry a tune. “There's a Long, Long Trail A-winding” was one of the songs he most often abused. When Tooey Spaatz came to visit from Sacramento, the two of them would play chess, Though Spaatz would probably have preferred poker, which was his favorite game, he couldn't get Arnold interested in it  The friendship between these two men deepened each time they saw each other. One nig