he had gone or when he would return. Arnold decided to take independent action. It was not a difficult decision for him to make  Time after time during his career he had ignored Army regulations and acted on his own initiative. Time after time he had also been disciplined for it, but the Army hadn’t yet broken him of the habit.  Unable to reach Colonel Hilton at Fort MacArthur, he put in a call for one of his pilots, Capt. Ira Eaker, who was on detached duty in Los Angeles,”” improving his military prospects by studying for a degree at the University of Southern California. When Arnold called he was in his apartment near the campus, about twenty miles from Long Beach.  “Can you get away right now,” Arnold asked, “and go down to Long Beach?”  The “right now” was superfluous, as Eaker was well aware. Whenev- er Arnold wanted anything done, he wanted it done “right now.” Eaker assured him he could go immediately k to the mayor and chief of police,” Arnold said. “Find out what  we can do to help.” Despite traffic congestion caused by the northward flow of refugees  from the continuing quakes, Eaker was in Long Beach within the hour, making his way to City Hall through the milling crowds of homeless,  Thomas M. Coffey 6  “Well, Hap,” she reminded him, “they told you to do that once.”  “I know it.”  “I don’t think you did anything wrong,” she said, after they had talked awhile,  ‘and you're not going to leave the service with a chip on your shoulder. I think you should ask for a court-martial.”  As he listened to her, his mood brightened. Finally he said, “I was hoping you'd say all that. I wanted to hear you say it.”  When he returned to Patrick's office the next day and announced he had chosen the court-martial, the Air Service chief had a problem for which he was not prepared. In any court-martial of Arnold, Patrick's own lobbying activity, and his tolerance of his whole staff's activities for some time, would almost certainly be discussed. Furthermore, after all the b