aft. Nev “ before or since has a military machine of such size and technical cor plexity been created in so short a period. At the height of World War. "!*ky Arnold commanded the largest, mightiest air force the world h, M"vitlekiey ever seen and perhaps will ev  see. When his B-29s dropped the aton “i!  bombs on Japan in 1945, the U.S. Air Force dominated the entire worl "aly  Mera  In the process of building this gigantic and unprecedented air flex Arnold had spent several billions of American taxpayers’ dollars. B "ckioge when he died in 1950, his entire personal estate amounted to only ty “Mitt  au $10,000 insurance policies and his “  ” Me ty ranch,” for which he had. pa ‘"tivig  $7,500. His widow had the right to a federal pension of $75 per mont! "vam  5 * HAP  newsmen."® These associates included Maj. Millard F. “Miff" Harmon, Capt. Ira C. Eaker, Lt. David Lingle, and, not surprisingly, Maj. H. A. “Bert” Dargue, the same man with whom Arnold had teamed, to their mutual detriment, nine years earlier in San Diego. (Partly through Arnold’s efforts, Dar  In early Februar the cry for more air power was continuing unabated in the press, and  ue had been reinstated in the Air Service.  1926, when War Department officials noticed that  when it became apparent that congressmen were still being bombarded with letters in favor of a separate air force, Secretary of War Dwight F. Davis ordered the chief of the Air Service, Maj. Gen. Mason M. Patrick, to conduct an investigation and find out who the agitators were. The investigation didn’t take long: Patrick knew the men behind the mailings because until the Mitchell trial he had been abetting them. It was imperative now that he take some action, at least against the principal offenders, who were Arnold and Dargue.  Patrick was reluctant to punish Dargue, who had been his personal pilot and was one of his most reliable aides, but he wasn’t at all hesitant about punishing Arnold, with whom he had never been on friendly ter