neuver finished so he  muita shall, whom he had just met a few days earlier, Perhaps he was  iMy 4 return to Bee. He didn’t yet know about the high-level problems had thrown Marshall into command of the whole operation. He | 't know either that a shortage of small boats would delay the landing yixidmigitt ation until the twenty-ninth.  rnmivtitteel Day after day, his letters to Bee continued, each conveying a warm  "  (ydnipika chat a man ought not be demonstrative, found difficult to convey in  and tenderness that Hap Arnold, burdened with the notion of his  on. On January 31, he pleaded with her to write him again. “I do not  cp Vididntiwitt*it y if you are still in bed, are getting better or worse, and it worries me  vitdnacwllt’ much.”  tuekictgdlit’ By this time, the White Force, of which he was a part, had landed pitvetelivy! essfully and begun its advance northward toward Manila. “These jienegtocli!l euvers are getting more strenuous every day,” he wrote Bee. “Some iW it is just a long hike over the road but yesterday and today we had to ‘ewig’! che enemy out of a position and so had to hike over ploughed wiewsrttitvl ind, through sugar cane fields and bamboo thickets.”  At one point on this march, Arnold and his company of Infantry 2» upon Lieutenant Marshall under the shade of a bamboo clump,  Thomas M. Coffey * 78  Arnold was crestfallen. “All this time we've been going without violets,” he said, “because I thought they were five dollars a bunch.”  After a one-day stop in Guam, where Bee caught her first glimpse of Oriental life, they reached Manila in mid-January and went directly to Fort McKinley. As soon as they arrived they realized their honeymoon was at an end. First, they were moved into quarters that they had to share with another officer, and with cockroaches so large Bee attacked one of them with a broom and failed to kill it. Two or three days later they were removed to another house, next door to a senior first lieutenant named George C. Marsha