or that. No powerful sympathy for the “independent air mission”—the kind of strategic air campaign which the B-175. and B-24s over Germany, and the B-29s over Japan were to carry out—existed in the War Department.'*  He seemed to be admitting in that passage that his own arguments for the “independent air missior  had not budged his friend Craig, who was commanding the Army  From the Navy, the Air Corps’ “independent mission” was receiving even less sympathy. The Navy felt that any money being spent on long-range bombers might better be spent on battleships or even carriers, which were now getting some Navy attention. And the Navy had the ear of President Roosevelt, its onetime assistant secretary. Roosevelt was not yet at this time an air-power advocate.  There were two ways Navy people could have looked at the long-range heavy bomber. They could have seen it as a support weapon for their fleet, a land-based naval gun that could strike an enemy fleet hundreds of miles away. Or they could have looked upon it as an  177 * HAP  altogether uncontrollable weapon that threatened their fleet and si- phoned money from their annual budget. As it happened, Navy people chose the latter view, because to choose the former view would have been to admit that the long-range bomber, in enemy hands, could be an effective weapon against the American fleet, Therefore they had to pretend it wouldn't work  This explains the Navy attitude about all the Air Corps tests, beginning with those Billy Mitchell conducted in 1921, proving that planes could sink battleships, Each time airplanes sank a battleship,  wy publicists and supporters would raise its soul from the depths on a tide of evasive words.  Until the B-17 actually appeared, the long-range heavy bomber had been only a paper threat, but the Navy, having fared so badly against the short-range bomber, was wary of it, On August 13, 1937, Lt. Col. Robert Olds of the G.H.Q. Air Force, leading a flight of three B-17s (Capt Curtis LeMay w