, Spaatz, and several other high officers. Spaatz drove Arnold to the country house at w hich he was billeted, but Arnold was so tired he fell asleep in the car during their conversation. “Two and a half hours sleep does not go very well any  more,” he noted in his diary. The house in which he was ensconced, sitting on two hundred manicured acres, had been built by Henry VIII as a hunting lodge.**  Arnold didn’t spend much time there. He was up at 7:30 the next morning and off to Eisenhower's headquarters for a briefing on the invasion, which was progressing as well as had been expe ted. He found e's staff that the  Ike “very optimistic” and was pleased to hear from I German Air Force over Normandy was “not so hot.” He had doubted British intelligence reports that indicated German air strength was still formidable. Now he learned that no German planes had tried to bomb the ships concentrated in ports in the south of England before the invasion, or to hit the invasion forces during the Channel crossing, or to attack the congested beachhead after the landings. To Arnold this was the ultimate proof that American daylight operations had been effective. The Germans were short of planes because the B-17s had knoc ked out their aircraft factories and, with the help of the long-range fighters, had shot down the bulk of their fighter force.  On the tenth, the Gombined Chiefs of Staff met in the cabinet wat office and, after discussing the invasion progress, turned their attention to the Pacific war. The British wanted to know how they could help. Then the question arose as to why MacArthur should be allowed to pursue his personally satisfying plan to invade the Philippines. Why not bypass the Philippines and move directly toward Japan or Formosa’ Admiral King, speaking for the Navy, argued for this Central Pacific course of action, and Arnold agreed with him because the Air Forces strikes against Japan. Until such island  would need bases for their B bases were available, he