egent's P: f Regent's Park opened fire with eat splitting cracks. The German  planes were soon direc  y overhead. The noise was deafening with the  ind the bo: drop «© bombs dropping—and then, almost as quickly as aid had started, the  firing of guns  th  noise rapidly receded and all was silent again.  leaving s i F eaving the sky bright from the fires At midnight, a new batch of  29 HAP  German planes arrived, sending Arnold and Quesada bac k up to the roof to watch once more.  “I can say rather frankly,” Quesada recalled, “the horrible effect of these night attacks had a profound impact on both of us, Very profound, including Arnold, And the ability to see thirty or forty raging fires at one time in a large city had an impact on us, and to see the calm of the next day, and to see business and commerce progressing as usual, had another unusual effect on us, We came to a sort of opinion, an intuitive opinion, that the British didn't know what they were in for. We sold them short, in other words. We thought they didn’t realize the magnitude of all the real effect of this night bombing. Well, it turned out that they were right and we were wrong.”"*  On the seventeenth, Air Vice Marshal Sir Richard Peirse, command- er in chief of Bomber Command, flew Arnold and Quesada over Cambridge to look at German bomb damage and repeated to him substantially what Slessor had said—that daylight bombing was impos- sible. This was an astonishing statement coming from Peirse because he was considered one of Britain's foremost advocates of precision bomb- ing, a modus operandi that American air strategists were now accepting as sacred doctrine. Since Peirse’s appointment the previous € Ictober, his planes had been concentraung their attacks on two specific targets that had to be hit precisely if they were to be damaged at all—oil installations and invasion barges. But after a few daylight attempts they were now flying only at night, when precision was impossible, With their American p