e same increase,  nd Congres:  The more hideous aspects of the sit upon Arnold. For three years he had bee that if too many planes were sent to En end up without air power at a moment needed. That dire prediction had now cc were facing a long, hazardous war with on hand and a total of only 1100 plan combatworthy. These included P-40 figh obsolescent and might soon be made ob:  Hawaii and the Philippines, the two co1  defense, the Zero already had the betu Zeros had been airborne during the battl on the ground—presumably the P-40 wi battle. But after the Japanese attacks, we! the Pacific to make a showing? And ew replacements for those that had been des  commanders out there know how to use  249 * HAP  was already familiar with the attitudes of the Navy's gruff, argumenta  tive and intransioent Frnie Kine. who insisted that America’s maior wat  249 * HAP  was already familiar with the attitudes of the Navy's gruff, argumenta- tive, and intransigent Ernie King, who insisted that America’s major war effort must be in the Pacific against Japan. Arnold could see in the making a tug-of-war for his airplanes between the British on one side and the U.S. Navy on the other. Though the admirals had consistenuy  and stubbornly resisted the allocation of raw materials and factory space to heavy bombers rather than to warships, they could be expected to demand their share of these heavy bombers as soon as they realized how useful a big, long-range plane could be in attacking Japan  This first meeting between the British and Americans as wartime allies produced some generalized agreements on aims and strategies Most important from Arnold's viewpoint was the decision to concentrate first on Europe rather than the Pacific, and Churc hill’s concession that the Americans should start heavy bombardment operations against Germany as soon as possible, from British bases and with their own units. The latter was a clear victory for Arnold, who promised, much too optimistically, to have his