kan wanted to conduct some tests in plan flight, and Arnold provided the planes even though he di understand the research. While he had a good grasp of techr did not have a scientific mind, nor the patience for the scier methods, and he often referred to scientists as “longhairs.” Bu made him realize how important they could be in the develc technology, and he never forgot it  The Long Beach earthquake of March 10, 1933, which» Arnold into trouble again with higher authorities, also gav opportunity to know and cultivate a man who would be importance to him five years later. When Col. Charles H. }  Fort MacArthur commandant, complained about Arnold    153 * HAP  flying, combined perhaps with his general intensity, his love of rich, sweet food  id his refusal ever to relax, brought on an episode which  153 * HAP  flying, combined perhaps with his general intensity, his love of rich, sweet food  nd his refusal ever to relax, brought on an episode which must have frightened him at the time, and to which, it can be said in retrospect, he should have paid closer attention  On a flight later in 1933 back to California from the East, with two of his young fighter pilots flying on his wings, he stopped in Salt Lake City for refueling. The two young pilots, perhaps tired after the long formation flight west, wanted to lay over there until the next day Arnold, always in a hurry, and possibly eager to show these youngsters that he wa  sn’t so old himself, decided they would fly on to March Field, and since he was the boss, they did so. But at dinner on Arnold’s first day at home, he seemed not to be hungry. His son Hank noticed that he just sat at the table, saying nothing and eating nothing.  Bee said to him, “Are you all right?”  “Yeah, I'm all right.”  But by that time he was turning gray. All the color had left his usually florid face and his breathing was labored. Finally he laid down his knife and fork in apparent distress. Bee, possibly fearful that he was suffering a he