d his job could be paid, and thus finance his future output  Though Arnold knew all this, he found it hard to accept the notion that at any given time he didn't know exactly how many airplanes he had in operation, nor could he receive calmly reports that airplanes “accept- ed” a month or so earlier had not yet reached the units to which they were consigned.  The purpose of this Sunday morning meeting was to straighten out the confusion in the system of acceptances. Among those present were Miff Harmon, Larry Kuter, and an officer named Col. Oliver S. “Stev  Ferson of the materiel division. A quiet, soft-spoken man, with “every  external appearance of being steady, outwardly calm and even placid, Ferson was the air staff's chief authority on the numbers and status of aircraft in ope Arnold's impatience,  ion. That, of course, made him the chief target of  After Arnold's data on aircraft “acceptances” had been presented, Ferson “slowly and methodically” itemized the aircraft which had been “accepted” despite the lack of engines or other components. When his list varied from Arnold's list, Arnold quickly took the attack, with his customary insistence and impatience. As Ferson listened to Arnold’s criticism of the materiel command data, he “began to flush under the strain.” His face reddened and the veins in his neck expanded.  F defend himself, but no words came forth, Pitching forward, he fell dead  1ally, when Arnold paused, Ferson opened his mouth as if to  of a massive heart attack on the carpet in front of Arnold's des!  Arnold ended the conference and told everyone in the office to go home and take off the rest of that Sunday, but he himself stayed at his desk for another hour or so. Though he mentioned it to no one, he must have noticed the similarity between Ferson's symptoms and his own flushed face and bulging veins during the short spells that occasionally overcame him.  Despite the fears he may have harbored about his own health, he refused to slow his pace