ecome short of breath, or when his ankles would swell, indicating he had retained too much fluid, he would go to Mollenhauer, who would give him digitalis or whatever medication was  Thomas M. Coffey * 384  memories flooded through him, he felt the rules were suddenly being changed and he was getting a “dose of Hank’s medicine.” He didn’t like it. Yet his understanding of his father had deepened in recent years, and as he gazed at this once strong but now wasted man who had dominated his life, he was overcome with sympathy for him  “Sure, Pop,” he said  Bruce stayed several days, well aware of his father’s deteriorating condition. It was during this visit Hap said to him, “It’s hell to be sick. They want to keep me alive by wrapping me in cotton and placing me in a glass case, but I'll be goddamned if I'll let them.” As soon as Bruce Air  returned to Point Mugu, he began arranging for his transfer to the Force  Bee returned from Philadelphia the seventeenth of June'* and she was not in the best of moods. There were difficult moments between them during the rest of that summer. Near the end of June, Hank arrived with his wife, Kaye, their young son, Hankie, and Kaye's mother. Though they stayed at a cottage on Dillon's Beach, about twenty-five miles away, they spent much of their time at the ranch, which made the days there somewhat hectic but also produced an unexpected benefit Hank put up several tons of hay for his father.  Though Arnold was pleased with the progress of his book, Harper and Brothers, apparently deciding that what they had seen of the manuscript would need work, sent a professional writer, William R Laidlaw, to help him with it. Laidlaw, who had been a lieutenant colonel in the Eighth Air Force during the war, was familiar with much of Arnold’s story, which proved to be an advantage in their collaboration, but there were also disadvantages. Arnold could be a difficult man under the best conditions. Now his health was a factor in everything he tried