sant. And as if there weren't already enough friction between them, she was now accusing him of seeing other women. She had decided he was having an affair with one of her friends, and all the arguments in the world couldn't convince her otherwise  Hap thought her Air Forces relief work might be responsible for her condition, She had, after all, attacked the job with all her energy; perhaps it was too much for her. But when he suggested she discontinue it, she would flare up at him. The staff doctors attending him, worried about his condition and anxious for him to get more rest, would  encourage her to take afternoon rides with Simmons, and sometimes she  345 * HAP  did so. But even with him she was irritable now. He would start to say something and she would cut him off in mid-sentence. It was the sort of thing her husband might do to Simmons but it was completely unlike her. After such an outburst, they would travel in silence for a mile or two; then she would say, “Simmons, I'm sorry."  Though these were difficult circumstances under which to recover from a heart attack, Arnold showed gradual improvement, The two of them moved from the hospital to the estate of Gilbert Grosvenor, the publisher of National Geographic magazine, who had made the place available for wartime uses. There they had a house to themselves. Arnold, completely back on his feet now, played golf or cruised off the Florida coast on the Air Forces crash boat, a fast 160-footer, One day when he and Simmons were on it, a Navy P-T boat came up beside it, between Coral Gables and Catcaid Island, and challenged it to a race.  Arnold said to the crash boat captain, “Can you whip ‘em?”  The captain said, “Yeah, 1 can whip ‘em.” “Don't start anything you can’t finish,” Arnold warned, “T don't  want the Navy to beat me.”  With the captain’s assurance, Arnold fired a gun and the race was on. The P-T boat got away so fast it seemed about to put the crash boat out of sight, Then the crash boat captain, hav