wait that long,” Arnold said, “and neither can I.”  He picked up the phone and pretended to call Gen. “Miff” Harmon, his chief of staff, who happened at the moment to be in Shreveport, Louisiana. After faking a few preliminary pleasantries, he said, “How long will it take you to get me Louisiana State University? You think you can get it for me in three or four days? Well that’s great. I'll tell you what I want. I want a place to establish an Officer Candidate School We may have as many as two or three thousand candidates, maybe more than that before we get through. But you think you can get it for me in three or four days, Well, that’s wonderful, Miff. Thank you very much.”  Though Suzy Adkins in the outer office was the only person on the line, Arnold had succeeded in fooling the staff members with whom he was conferring. Maj. Gen. Walter Weaver, who had been a classmate of  Arnold’s at West Point and was now acting chief of Air Forces, stood up and said, “May I be excused?  Arnold said, “By all means.”  A few days later he received a call from Weaver in Miami Beach. Because of the war, the tourist business there was bad could tak  The Air Forces  over three hundred hotels at once.'®  Arnold figured that the cost of leasing these hotels would be $119  257 * HAP  per man, whereas school construction costs at the time would be about $1,000 per man. Though he had difficulty convincing the War Depart- ment of this saving, he eventually succeeded, and before he was through the Air Forces had taken over about five hundred hotels for its training program, which was now bursting its seams.  When Weaver secured the Miami Beach hotels, Arnold was already on the verge of relieving him as acting chief of Air Forces. His adroit Florida transaction came too late to save him. In March, Arnold sent him to Knollwood, North Carolina, to take over the Eastern Technical  Training Command. At the same time, Arnold’s old friend Maj. Gen  Jake Fickel was relieved as commander of the Fou