eople in the military. He was bitterly convinced that the growth of aviation was being blocked deliberately by battleship advocates and other enemies of air power, These included a lot of entrenched Army generals, but it was primarily the Navy that he railed against, the entrenched admirals who were “unable to face the fact that sea power was done for." He had worked out a program to prove to them what the airplane could do. His border patrol and Arnold's forest fire patrol were part of that program. He also planned a transcontinen- tal air race, a flight to Alaska by a large formation of planes, and after that, a mass flight around the world. But above all, he was pursuing a campaign to make the Navy cooperate in a test that would prove whether or not airplanes could sink battleships. Among the captured German ships in the Navy’s possession was a big, modern super- dreadnaught, the Ostfriesland. Since it would never be used for any other purpose, Mitchell wanted the Navy to offer it, in a controlled exper- iment, as a target for aerial bombs. He flatly promised that, contrary to all naval doctrine, bombs would sink it  The Navy, unwilling to entertain such a challenge to the omnipo- tence of its own cherished battleships, was refusing to cooperate. Adm. William S. Benson, chief of naval operations, went on record that summer with the declaration, “I cannot conceive of any use the fleet will ever have for aircraft.”  Later that summer, on August |, Benson went to far as to promul- gate a secret order which said: “In accordance with the policy of the  ut erro aches ih ho of er ‘ts he dn Dio lb cM Hin! atk ei i rane ad, wo vit rearing ill ep Mh  he ang he US Sc  Ma Cana‘. hc, am ran  Shots au oe neon Use sau Ae gai. hehe pe hina arti tao adh hd ho as ng se ie ¢eputuens  Heats ama ue cf ebrase  Asat  tay ah  Vay Ea Rc, prey ale  food Bon gua ph, Whe Re tn  Seed 1 be dled wih hae api, Mik  rennin king ic card aces ‘hos ier Mich ken hue high he aan  lib Nay Darien”  Ml a