ers. But their argument hung in the balance, first of all because Eaker’s demand  those regulations. Dr. Lee, who had taken up Arnold's case, was able to convince Stimson and Marshall that Arnold was strong enough to continue. But Stimson and Marshall, in addition to feeling a need for for extra fuel tanks was unfulfilled so far, and secondly because, even : 8 Arnold, both had further reasons to side with him. Stimson’s health had ys been delicate for some time, and Marshall had been walking around sermany. . s with a pronounced heart murmur for several years. (Dr. Lee Martin had \ By this time, however, the North American P-51 Mustang, a Bn 2  ds. once examined him and concluded he didn’t have long to live  { hopelessly sluggish airplane when it was powered by a 1,300-horsepower ss ‘ x} a Even with the blessing of Stimson and Marshall, Arnold needed \? _) Allison Engine, had been reborn, at the suggestion of the British, by the  with extra tanks, it was doubtful that the P-47 could reach the heart of  5 Roosevelt's approval if he was to remain commanding general of the Air  INS substitution of a 1,600-horsepower Rolls-Royce Merlin engine. Suddenly 5 PI ancing 8 <3  s a Forces. Dr. Lee made an appointment at the White House to argue for it was beginning to act like a potentially great fighter plane. But like all Hf  him, after Arnold gave him some advice about what to say  The president listened to Lee's description of Arnold's heart attack, his recovery, and his current condition, then said, “Hap works hard and he has to fly a lot. If he continues as commanding general, is it likely to  other fighter planes of the period, it lacked range.  Arnold had put Maj. Gen. Barney Giles, now his director of military requirements, to work on the problem.’? It was Giles who had earlier solved the P-38 training problem by adding a piggyback seat for  B ; endanger his life? instructors. He called North American president Dutch Kindelberger 8  Lee said, “Yes, Mr. President, it mi