l, used to complain that Patrick would get liquor prescriptions from his doctor “for medicinal purposes” (the only way he could get it legally during Prohibition), then make Streett go to the drugstore to have the prescription filled, but never offer him a drink. Arnold and Patrick had no such reasons for disliking each other. They simply couldn't get along, a fact that became obvious at the time of Mitchell's dismissal. Arnold arranged a farewell luncheon for his de- posed friend at the Racquet Club in Washington, and apparently as an afterthought, to accommodate people who didn’t get to the luncheon, a less formal barbecue party that night. Patrick attended the luncheon, thus openly emphasizing his sympathy for Mitchell, and that afternoon, Arnold went into his office to make sure he was included in the barbecue party.  “Sir,” he said, “We're having  “Ye used with subordinates who interrupted him when he was preoccupied.  “And we would like . .  “Yes, I know, I know,” he said, still not listening.  “We would like, sir...”  “All right, I know. I know,” the general cried out impatiently.  Maybe he does know, Arnold thought to himself. Maybe someone  , yes, I know,” Patrick said impatiently. It was a phrase he often  else had already invited him, Without chancing another outburst, Arnold left the room.  The next morning, Patrick summoned him to his office and demanded to know why he had not been invited” to the evening  “jn a wrath,  party.  Thomas M. Coffey # 120  claims and has proven and is still willing to prove openly that any naval  vessel afloat can be put out of action, whether under way or standing  still, by airplanes  When Billy Mitchell first made this claim it had sounded like an idle boast, but by 1925, the Air Service had proved its point. In retrospect it seems astonishing that the Navy continued building battleships even up to 1945, after nearly all the German and Japanese battleships had been destroyed by airplanes, many of them by the Navy’s own pl