didn't yet know it ner, the Polish government, that evening, had at dawn, the German army  completely surrender as they sat down to dinr rejected Hitler's demand. The next morning  invaded Poland  ai or ye  al  ha an he thi an  ac  fat Co  gor  qu  tall  to  you  sen  Hap Arnold's father, Dr. H. A. Arnold  Hap Arnold’s mother, Louise Harley Arnold  Hap Arnold's father, Dr. H. A. Arnold.  Hap Arnold’s mother, Louise Harley Arnold  The Arnold home  te Onda Da  Hap Arnold's father, Dr. H. A. Arnold.  Hap Arnold’s mother, Louise Harley Arnold  Hap Arnold's father, Dr. H. A. Arnold.  Hap Arnold’s mother, Louise Harley Arnold  The #  seer ad ae  rnold home  Hap Arnold's father, Dr. H. A. Arnold  Hap Arnold’s mother, Louise Harley Arnold  The Arnold home in Gladwyne, Pa  Mrs. Hap Arnold asa young woman, §  Jack and Henry and sister Lois in foreground, outside the family home in Ardmore, Pa  The Amold home in Gladnyne, Pa -~  sity Mis, Hap Amold (6 veg if)  asa young wom,  Air Force bomber drops phosphorus  vith win brothers bomb on the bauleship  Jack and Henry °F ! \ ‘  and sister Losin Md Alabama, foreground, Hi, ha 1912 outside the ut 7  family home in .  Ardmore, Pa .  Hap Arnold's father, Dr. H. A. Arnold  op to bottom, Hank, David,  une 15, 1927  Hap Arnold’s mother, Louise Harley Arnold  Air Force bomber drops phosphorus bomb on the bauleship  Alabama,  1912  Bruce, Lois, and Hank at the Presidio in San Francisco, about 1922  Top to bottom,  Bruce, Hank, David,  Hap Arnold, 1919, i June 15, 1927  the Wright (  Wright B-model, with nomenclature  the Wright (¢  Hap Arnold, 1912, in ee (a  Air Force bomber drops phosphorus bomb on the bauleship  Alabama,  1912  Bruce, Lois, and Hank at the Presidio in San Francisco, about 1922  Top to bottom, Bruce, Hank, David, June 15, 1927  Wright B-model, with nomenclature  Hap Arnold, 1919, i  the Wright (  Aue ce  igs ps bohone ip  {hii  Whe  Dn alka est Sun rami  Tipu bw  Bi ik. Lad,  je  Bruce, Hank, Hap, and Lois at air show i