is memoirs said that he thought in the early months of 1942 he would have enough planes by autumn to support the invasion.”” The whole matter illustrates how little the Americans knew when they entered the war about the effort it would take to defeat Germany and Japan.  On April 1, the president held a se (with all the participants coming in the back door to avoid attention) for  { meeting at the White House  Ww  n  w  Thomas M. Coffey * 264  Stark, King, Pa" Watson, Marshall, Hopkins, and Arnold attended. Roosevelt read  the purpose of discussing the Bolero plan. Stimson, Kno:  the plan aloud and discussed it paragraph by paragraph. Then Hopkins said pointedly, aware as he was of Navy recalcitrance, “I want to be sure  that everybody is in accord with this program. Admiral King, do you see  any reason this cannot be carried out?  King said, “No, I do not.”  It appeared that, whatever the merits or demerits of the Bolero scheme, the Army and Air Forces had at least reaffirmed the doctrine of concentration of power against Germany, and had thus prevented diversion of strength to the Pacific. But King was not an easy man to overcome. In time they would hear more from him on the subject of diversion to his Pacific theater. They would also hear more from Douglas MacArthur about diversion to his Pacific theater. MacArthur and King didn’t agree about many things—they assuredly did not agree about whose theater the Pacific was—but they were both certain that the Pacific was the primary theater in which to fight the war. And they were a hard pair to resist  In the midst of the planning for Bolero and the efforts to satisfy the demands for air strength in so many theaters, Arnold held a 10:00 a.m. staff meeting one Sunday in early March to find out why he was receiving conflicting reports about plane deliveries from factories to Air Forces units.**  One reason, as it turned out, was his own helter-skelter method of gathering information. He was constantly on the phone with m