d armies, having broken through German defenses in France, were moving inexorably toward the Rhine  When Arnold returned from Quebec, he began conc entrating on a new phase of his Air Forces responsibility—cutbacks in production and personnel. The flow of men, planes and supplies (exc ept B-29s) © all  theaters was now so plentiful that Arnold and Lovett felt it had to be restrained to prevent waste,  Arnold said to his staff one day, “Just because I turned all the spigots on, isn’t there someone around here who knows enough to turn them off ?”  There were now almost 2.4 million men and women in the Air Forces, and pilots were graduating at the rate of 105,000 per year. About 4,000 airplanes per month were coming off the assembly lines Arnold ordered a gradual cutback all the way down the line. Then he aa to California in early October to study the effects of diminishing mode! tion in the aircraft industry. With the war moving toward a cacaa the aircraft companies would have to be curtailed sharply, but ia  thought it would be dangerous to the country’s security if they were  353 *« HAP  allowed to return to the skeletal condition from which they had begun war preparations in 1939.  While in California, he had dinner with his son Bruce, now a second lieutenant with an automatic-weapons unit, and Bruce's bride, Donald Douglas's daughter, Barbara. Arnold had missed their June wedding because he was in England. Bruce’s unit was training for an amphibious operation and still anticipating shipment overseas. Arnold said ina letter to Hank, “Ultimately he will get his assignment in some theater —probably not the same one you are in.” With one son at the front in Europe, Arnold was almost certain he would soon have another at the  front in the Pacific. Lois’s husband, Ernie Snowden, now a commander in the Navy, was  back in San Francisco with her, at least for a while. In her spare ume, Lois was busy trying to get some work done on the family ranch near Sonoma. Arnold had h