else who was attached to him. She hadn't been able to get along very well with her mother for several years. At one time she had been cordial to Simmons, but that cordiality had faded as the comrade- ship between Simmons and her father deepened  Arnold still heard from old friends. Dwight Eisenhower wrote to him in March 1949,” about the soon-to-be successful struggle to unite the services and make the Air Force equal to the Army and Navy. Charles Portal wrote to him about his quiet life in peacetime England.** Charles Lindbergh wrote to tell him how much he had enjoyed their association.” And there was a letter from the White House, dated May 7, which pleased him mightily. President Truman wrote to say he had just signed a bill making Arnold the first (and still the only) permanent five-star general of the Air Force.  It became an occasion for a family celebration. Hap summoned Dr. Lee and another friend, one-time aide Harry Chesley, then arranged for a B-17 to fly them east, stopping to pick up Bruce at Point Mugu and Hank at Camp Carson, Colorado, After a White House ceremony  * HAP  during which President Truman bestowed a permanent five-star insig- nia, the entire party flew to West Point where Bee met them. She had been visiting her mother and sister Lois on Long Island. The Arnolds then attended David's graduation, followed by his marriage to a beauti- ful young New Yorker, Miss Jean Simmons. Bee returned to Long Island after the celebration and the rest of the party flew west  Several days later, David and his bride came to California on leave. Hap’s pride in his youngest son was increased by the fact that David was also entering the Air Force, as a ground officer. Hap would now have two sons in the service he loved  David couldn't help noticing the pleasure his father took in the hilly land that was his hom owned. Since childhood David had heard him talk about retiring on the West Coast, in beautiful country with a trout stream running through it. He had al