n at the Hotel Abbis, Arnold and Quesada took  HAP  time for a bath; then, at breakfast with Slessor and his companions, they learned that the British were eager to get right down to business. First of all, what could the Americans do about the German submarine cam- paign in the Adantic, which was so effective that it threatened England with blockade and starvation? Second, what could they do about the B-17 Flying Fortress, several of which had been sent to England, but had so far proven useless in combat? Gun turrets were freezing up and guns  were failing to fire at the high altitudes for which the plane was  designed. These were but two items on a long list of the plane's operational flaws. And third, did the Americans actually believe in the daylight precision-bombing method for which the B-17 had been created? The British were there to tell Arnold right away that daylight bombing wouldn't work. It would be too costly. Even before he reached England, Arnold had reason to wonder whether he shouldn't have stayed at home.  A suite had been arranged for Arnold and Quesada at the Dore hest- er, where Portal lived, and the first evening, when they dined with him, he annoyed Arnold immediately by asking for a copy of his proposed agenda. What subjects did Arnold want to discuss during his stay? Arnold didn’t have an agenda. But he soon found the British unpre- pared to talk about some of the subjects he considered important, and vice versa. It seemed to Quesada that Portal’s formality, combined with his repetitious urgency in asking for things from America, was irksome to Arnold.  One of Arnold's questions to Portal concer ned British bauxite supplies for aluminum production. He was talking about the manufac- ture of 75,000 military planes, which might require more aluminum than the United States could spare. It suddenly became apparent that Portal was staggered by the concept of 75,000 planes. This was Arnold's first introduction to a British attitude that he encounte