Treasury coordinating committee had arranged the fore!  zn business, and he allowed no Air ( orps representatives on that committee. But Morgenthau was still not satisfied with the proportion of planes going to the Allies, On January 8, 1940, he secured Roosevelt's  approval for allotment to France of twenty-five of the first eighty-one  211 # HAP  Curtiss P-40 fighter planes the Air Corps had ordered. “I did a magician’s trick for you,” he told one of the French representatives. “Pulied twenty-five planes out of the hat.”*  Four days later, after learning about the loss of those planes, Arnold carried by hand a memorandum to Secretary Woodring protesting the  situation. “Certain foreign governments,” his memo said, “have express ed a desire to obtain delivery of airplanes contracted for by the Army Air Corps prior to deliveries being made to the Army Air Corps. Further, expressions have been made which indicate that in the future requests may be made to set aside work now being done on Army airplanes to expedite foreign deliveries. ... More requests by foreign governments for the diversion of aeronautical equipment will undoubtedly be  made.”"?  Arnold had two main objections to this diversion: it would delay Air  Corps expansion; and if foreign countries were given top priority, his  Air Corps, for some time at least, would end up with inferior planes.  But even in this protest, Arnold was careful to make two points clear: “It is very desirable to have as many foreign orders as possible placed in the United States,” he wrote, “as it increases the productive capacity for airplanes, engines, and their accessories, thus making us better prepared for any emergency.” And in conclusion, he reaffirmed his loyalty to the commander in chief. “Should a decision be made by those in authority that such diversion should be made, the Chief of the Air Corps will carry out his instructions to the letter.”  When Arnold testified secretly before the House Military Affairs Committee