st leg of his flight. Lois and Ernie were then living in Pen: tinlicyh Florida, where he was stationed, but had come north on leave for !""thitia) In New York, Arnold made connections with Maj. Elwood Pia Quesada, his aide and companion on the trip. Quesada, who we tala known in the Air Corps for his flying skill, had been one of the pil "tin! the famous “Question Mark” flight, which set an air endurance rec “lita 150 hours, 40 minutes, in 1929. (Others on that flight were Carl § "lid Ira Eaker, Harry A. Halverson, and Roy Hoc Mihi ‘ago  Flying to Europe was a roundabout experience in 1941, befo ini days of nonstop airliners and before the Air Corps’ North Adantic "hd via Newfoundland and Greenland had been opened. Arnok iii  Quesada, plus sixteen other venturesome passengers, took off ¢""#  clipper bound for Portugal at 1:15 a.m. on April 11 and stopy “Ht! theta  Hab ti  Bermuda and the Azores before reaching Lisbon, which was t center of international intrigue.  Because Portugal was a n  country and one of the few gateways to and from conquered Ex ium people from all the warring nations moved in and out of it, excha "Wht; information or whatever else they might have to sell hey  Arnold, not yet accustomed to being considered an important “hardly knew what to expect” from the English. He was sure he ve get to meet Air Chief Marshal Charles Portal and his subordinate *!#lang perhaps even Lord Beaverbrook, the British newspaper put Churchill had named production coordinator. But Arnold di lak anticipate any fuss over him. “In the United States, I was definitely wha  minor league,’ ” he later observed. “I had not reached the ‘major le i Status in the military setup. d  Hanley  Mh mene  British welcoming party of three, headed b ia y Air Marshal John C. SI i had flown all the way to Portugal to  He was astonished, therefore, to find  grect him Clade After checking in at the Hotel Abbis, Arnold and Quesads _tttinii) Quesad:  229 HAP  German planes arrived, sending Arnol