om »de up the hill in a horse-drawn hack to the only available always-crowded West Point Hotel near Trophy Point. A ig, reputed once to have been General Washington's head- necame each weekend a swarming hive of young ladies, per families and all well chaperoned, who were there to their cadet friends at the academy hops or go walking  rounds with them during the precious few hours the cadets  r Arnold was eagerly anticipating Eleanor Pool’s visit has ecorded. He was attracted to women, like most young men, iordinately awkward and shy around them, partly because vackground had not taught him many of the social graces.'? ow how to approach a girl, make small talk, or strike up a ith her. With boys it was easy. All you had to do was shake hem on the back, argue with them and maybe out-shout disagreed with you. But girls had to be treated according to es he had never learned—except for the etiquette the | imposed on him, he could rely only on country manners, rdly polished. A simple pastime like dancing, for example, yond his competence that he never attended a hop until his ind then only once—not because he shared his father’s view ign *s way of life and he knew so little about it that he was  ia moral danger, but simply because dancing was so for  even to try it. ot until Betty Arnold and Eleanor Pool, having settled  Thomas M. Coffey * 22  such a glorious piece of mischief he was almost proud to have it pinned upon him  One day, when they were at liberty from the post, the Black Handers found a shop where they could buy fireworks. Pooling their funds, they bought almost the entire stock—if a thing was worth doing, it was worth doing well. On the appointed night, having planned and timed their operation with all the precision and coordination of a military attack, they let loose such a varied and deafening series of salvos from every corner of the grounds that, in Arnold’s words, “bugles blew, sirens sounded, officers and men tumbled from their beds, the whole reserva