n’t return so we finally sat  down to eat.”  Eleanor’s family and friends called her “Bee,” short for “Beetle,” a nickname her older brothers had given her when she was a little girl because, to stop her from tagging along with them wherever they went, they told her one day she would have to go home unless she was willing to bite in two a beetle they had caught. As the story was told in the Pool family, she had done so. She was not the kind of girl that boys could intimidate. Though she denied in later years that it had ever happened, she never lived down either the story or the nickname.*  71 * HAP  Shortly after dinner was served, Bee finally walked in with a tall, blond young man and introduced him as Mr. Arnold. “He looked confused. He blushed. I thought he was charming,” Mrs. Spaatz recalled.  After dinner, Bee's father, Sidney Pool, a cheerful, smiling man with no pretensions even though he was a highly respected banker, took young Mr. Arnold out onto the porch of the large, Victorian house for a conversation both had been anticipating since the previous Sunday when Bee returned from Washington.  Arnold, in his usual direct style, wasted no time getting to the point. “I'd like to ask you, sir, may I marry your daughter?”  “Bee can marry anyone she wants,” her father replied, “as long as he’s not a goddamned foreigner.” It was an odd remark to come from a man with an English background who had sent his daughter to study in Europe, but it probably reflected, rather than intolerance of foreigners, a certain amount of concern about his daughter, who had been semi-engaged several times in the past, once to an Italian gentleman Mr. Pool could not abide.  Bee Pool’s entry into Hap Arnold's life was a blessing to him in many respects, not the least of which was that it helped pull him out of the doldrums into which his retirement from flying had thrown him. Still unhappy as a desk officer in the Air Service, he now resolved to do something about it. The depth of his u