dly argue that. He decided to go to New York, see the World's FE  and her figure out what to do with his life. The decision came quickly after  - left Washington. He knew that each year some soldie  t “4 D a i  hrough competition to attend West Point. He would enlist in the Arm y  and, with 1 luck, win one of the soldier appointments, then enter the academy whether his father liked it or not  rs were selected  Wh = tS a ¢ proudly that he sted, his en he called home to announc proudly that he had enlisted, hi h a ,  father, still angry and disappc 1 better not be ir : ngry a disappointed, s z  PP al I t n we the Ai  Suddenly Bruce became just  as angry. “I wouldn't be goddamned lousy outfit,’ sane  age he yelled, and slammed down the receiver A week later = : . his father, apparently feeling some remorse but not  quite able to unbend enou admit it openly, sent anot officer to 7 e gh nil penly, sen er 4 h 4 h ice  talk to Bruce. “He wants tc w wha in Or yc e officer ants to know what : he can do for you,” the office You can tell him,” Bruce said,  “that what I war ; a F ant him to > to leave me to hell alone.” eae  Arnold seeme ~ cemed to sense now that he had better back off and let the  world, He may also have begun to was paying a penalty for | F us career, which had kept him  young man find his own way in the sense that he  203 * HAP  away from his children so much of the time while they were growing up; but even if he did sense this there was very little he could do about it. His career was now taking so much of his time it separated him more than ever from his family  In the summer of 1939, he saw Lindbergh frequently, He appoint- ed him to the board on which Lindbergh had agreed to serve.” He took him to congressional hearings and introduced him to influential con gressmen who needed to be told about the rising strength of Germany. He also introduced him to scientists like Dr. Vannevar Bush, and to orge Marshall, who was to become Army chief of staff on Septemb