dn’t know that. When one of them ran downstairs and summoned Dr. Arnold, the whole liquorish plot was suddenly exposed. The resultant scene between Dr. Arnold and Sidney Pool put an end forever to friendly relations between the Arnolds and the Pools.  79 * HAP  me as an answer to many of my troubled thoughts. I do so hope that ontinue to get better all the time and wish that 1 knew that you were f bed now, I will not be able to stop worrying until I know that you entirely recovered. I hope dearest that we never have to go through troubles again. It caused me more serious thoughts than anything  1as happened in the last 28 years of my life.” Which was to say, his  e life. He did not, of course, mention what “those troubles” were, they were “female troubles,” to use the idiom of the day, and were yliveilain’ 9 be discussed explicitly, In all of Arnold's letters to his wife during lhe qiwellad isis, the exact nature of her illness was not once mentioned  vanitiriaiwit The following day, January 2  Teall b ‘ahrycarw icky ike to feel you are getting well. If I could only get some word before  he was already impatient to receive  (i aer letter from her, “Even though I cannot hear from you I should  haimbetwiike mg I should be satished.” iti thin gins He was referring to the start of the maneuver, the “invasion,” which  jiwirloea’ thew wready one day overdue, “Marshall has just arrived on the scene,”  bibikeenatinls rote. “He is just 24 hours late in arriving in spite of the fact that he jit “ed us there would be no tie-up in the Quartermaster transporta-  it You remember he assured us of that when we were at his house for aibbshokbhvis ex” pd nultidtii’ These lines suggest that Arnold had already become impatient with  hihi  ui (iit! ly expressing his eagerness to get this maneuver finished so he  muita shall, whom he had just met a few days earlier, Perhaps he was  iMy 4 return to Bee. He didn’t yet know about the high-level problems had thrown Marshall into command of t