r nearly two years wasted. If I am to be allowed any personal preference, having started with the Eighth and seen it organized for major task in this theater it would be heart-breaking to leave just before climax. If my services satisfactory to seniors, request I be allowed to retain command 8th  Air Force.  He then sent similar cables to Eisenhower and Spaatz and inspired Gen. Jacob Devers, European theater commander at the time, to send one to Arnold, requesting that Eaker be retained in England. Arnold's answer to Devers, on December 20, was firm: “For retaining Eaker in command of the 8th Air Force, all the reasons that you have given are those that have been advanced as reasons why he should go down and be commander of the Allied Mediterranean Air Forces.” He followed this  with another cable to Eaker, on December 21, which settled the matter:  The dictates of world-wide air operations necessitate major changes being made. This affects you personally, and while from your point of view it is unfortunate that you cannot, repeat, not stay and retain command of the organization that you have so carefully and successfully built up, the broader viewpoint of the world-wide war effort indicates the necessity for a change. I extend to you my heart-felt thanks for the splendid cooperation and loyalty that you have given me thus far and for the wonderful success of your organization, but I cannot, repeat, not see my way clear to make any change in the decisions already reached  Knowing Arnold, Eaker decided it was pointless to continue the battle. On Christmas Eve, he wrote to his old friend a less than friendly cable of compliance: “Orders received. Will be carried out promptly  wilt  mere Mbeca pa hom nein ‘ibaa yack cl  ek lig Ce LL an  Waal ible  woah ea Woot ebb datos wr hap  Aealeckebidhon at Aetna Avandia tiled nahi woah dali (malar wid gi he pboy  yates  335 * HAP  getting them there before the first of April. At this writing I ect to have 150 B-29s in China by Ma