l, no one knew the difference. At least he  Spee seek setae ar Seed a  known to get any u  Thomas M. Coffey * 134  known to get any urgent mail, no one knew the difference. At least he  Thomas M. Coffey * 134  known to get any urgent mail, no one knew the difference. At least he didn’t know the difference. All he knew was that he had mail on his desk every Tuesday and Thursday, which was apparently enough to make him happy. The following year, 1928, he returned to the Seventh Corps Area for a vacation in the north woods of Wisconsin, where Arnold repeated his trick so successfully that on November 28, 1928, he won a commendation from the assistant secretary of war.'®  In May 1927, the rest of his squadron flew to Fort Sam Houston, San Antonio, for a  after arranging the first Coolidge mail lift, Arnold and  war game maneuver. This led to the end of his exile because it brought him to the favorable attention of General James E. Fechet, who was replacing General Patrick as Air Service chief. When Arnold arrived in Texas with his observation planes, Fechet—a big, bluff, hearty man, friendly but tough and demanding—was angry because the bombers assigned to take part in the exercise hadn't yet appeared. They had stayed an extra day in Okalahoma City for no explainable reason, and by the time they reached Fort Sill, Oklahoma, a storm was rising with winds at gale force. Fechet appointed Arnold to get those bombers to San Antonio. Despite the wind, he did so, with the loss of no lives and only one plane (which ran into a hangar in Dallas while trying to turn around).  Fechet made no effort to conceal his pleasure at Arnold's accom- plishment. “I thought that I was through,” Arnold wrote to Bee from San Antonio on May 11, “but not so.” With Patrick retiring and Fechet taking charge in Washington, he felt he again had an opportunity to move ahead.  With Fechet came a new name for the Air Service. It was now the Army Air Corps. In June, Arnold was invited to Wright Field in D