ad to revolutionize the thinking of his own staff. “We had been fighting so hard and so long to get the few planes, the gasoline, the pilots, the  fter he took over as chief of the A understand why his predecessor  much of his time away from Washingtoi  even the skeleton corps then in existenc want to get out of town. And the newly the corps into a real air force with the enthusiasm was bound to complicate the likelihood of large appropriations for th tracted an endless number of governme for a piece of what Arnold called “the much they loved the corps and how es  But before there were any tangibl surprising sign of continuing hunger. O general sent Arnold a War Departme said “4-engine bombers will not be inc [Fiscal Years] 1940 and 1941  This meant either that Secretary W to Air Corps expansion, hadn't heard a historic September 28 meeting, or th attention to Roosevelt's orders, or th R  from the U.S. Treasury  osevelt's air force would come not fre  Oddly enough, the latter would not  tion. President Roosevelt's perception of consequences to America if Hitler were | him to the conviction that the United St against German aggression. But with Ai strong, especially in the western part of politically dangerous for him to declan  wanted to help Hitler’s potential enen t  subtlety and subterfuge There was, it seems in retrospect, a the initial aircraft production progran  186  Thomas M. Coffey  Ii  Thomas M. Coffey 188  mechanics, everything we had, that at first, even after Munich, it was difficult to get my staff to adjust their minds to a realistic plan.”  Calling his staff together, he explained that because of events in Europe, it was time for them to work out an air program which would meet any eventuality. How many planes did they think would be needed?  He went around the table, asking each man. When he added up and averaged their replies, the estimate came to a mere 1,500.  The figure shocked him, He began breaking it down into various areas or possible war th