e path of the propellor. It had taken Orville Wright several months to recover from his own injuries in the crash, but this had not discouraged him. In 1909, he and his brother h it  ad returned with another plane, the same catapult-launched model. This time their demonstration was so successful they had earned a $30,000 contract for the plane and the training of two officers to fly it. Since chen six officers—Lts. Frank Lahm, Frederic E Humphries, enanars D. Foulois, Oliver A. Dickinson, and George E. M. Kelly, and Capt. Paul  Beck—had undertaken flying lessons, though none had been certified  as aircraft pilots  The Signal Corps had ordered its second and third planes, new  42  43 * HAP  Wright B-models, a month before Arnold and Milling arrived in Dayton, after Congress had finally appropriated $125,000 for a full- scale experiment in military aviation. Part of that money was earmarked for the purchase of the two planes and part of it would be used to give Arnold and Milling a complete training course in how to fly them. Arnold could now understand the curious two-year delay since he had informed Captain Cowan by cable from the Philippines of his willing- ness to learn to fly. Though the Signal Corps had organized its Aviation Service in 1907, it had taken four years before Congress was ready to accept the notion that the Army might need more than one airplane. But Congress was not alone in its reluctance to spend money on such an outlandish endeavor as flying. Most Army officers were certain they didn't need any airplanes.  Arnold was pleased to be reunited with Tommy Milling, an amiable, round-faced young man, two or three inches shorter and considerably lighter than Arnold, just as quick-witted but somewhat less dynamic. Like Arnold, he had been chosen for this duty by Captain Cowan, whom he came to know at Fort Leavenworth after Cowan's return from the Philippines. He had caught Cowan's attention because of his dashing style as a polo player and the fact that