e Army hadn't yet broken him of the habit.  Unable to reach Colonel Hilton at Fort MacArthur, he put in a call for one of his pilots, Capt. Ira Eaker, who was on detached duty in Los Angeles,”” improving his military prospects by studying for a degree at the University of Southern California. When Arnold called he was in his apartment near the campus, about twenty miles from Long Beach.  “Can you get away right now,” Arnold asked, “and go down to Long Beach?"  The “right now” was superfluous, as Eaker was well aware. Whenev- er Arnold wanted anything done, he wanted it done “right now.” Eaker assured him he could go immediately k to the mayor and chief of police,” Arnold said. “Find out what  we can do to help.” Despite traffic congestion caused by the northward flow of refugees  from the continuing quakes, Eaker was in Long Beach within the hour, making his way to City Hall through the milling crowds of homeless,  Thomas M. Coffey 6  “Well, Hap,” she reminded him, “they told you to do that once.”  “IT know it.”  “I don’t think you did anything wrong,” she said, after they had talked awhile,  ‘and you're not going to leave the service with a chip on your shoulder. I think you should ask for a court-martial.”  As he listened to her, his mood brightened. Finally he said, “I was hoping you'd say all that. I wanted to hear you say it.”  When he returned to Patrick's office the next day and announced he had chosen the court-martial, the Air Service chief had a problem for yared. In any court-martial of Arnold, Patrick's own lobbying activity, and his tolerance of his whole staff's activities for  which he was not pre  some time, would almost certainly be discussed, Furthermore, after all the bad publicity the Army had received during the Mitchell trial, it was doubtful that the General Staff would appreciate another one like it. Was Arnold certain, Patrick asked, that he perferred a court-martial, consid- ering all its implications for the service and for his family? Yes