avigational training or practice, flying a plane that drifted like a straw in the wind, had found their way on the flight to Frederick. On the return flight, bewildered as to their location, they finally landed in a field to ask a farmer for directions. On takeoff they crashed, and though neither man was hurt, the plane was damaged, and so was Arnold's confidence. By now, the Army had suffered its second air casualty when Lt. George Kelly, learning to fly a Curtiss plane, died in a San Antonio crash on May 10. And so many civilian pilots had already been killed that anyone who flew was forced to wonder how long he could survive. The early planes were so flimsy and their engines so unreliable that the likelihood of an eventual crash was overwhelming.  Milling, on takeoff from College Park one day, had made his first turn and was approaching the fish hatchery just beyond the end of the field when “suddenly there was a connecting rod poking out through the cylinder at me.” Since he wasn’t high enough to turn and glide back to the field, he could do nothing but cut his engine and await the worst. On this occasion, however, the flimsiness of the plane worked to his  51 = HAP  advantage. Even with the pilot aboard, the Wright B-model weighed no more than eight hundred pounds. Looking down straight ahead of him, Milling noticed that on the fish hatchery property was a grove of young trees.  “I just brought her down and lifted the nose up and dropped it flat on the top of the trees,” he recalled.  He was still in the plane when a detachment of men arrived from the field, each with a long pole in hand. “They went around and put the poles under the wings and balanced the tail and just walked out with it and let it down on the ground,”  By this time, Arnold and Milling had become minor celebrities around Washington. When Arnold reached his apartment near Dupont Circle after returning to town by train the night of his first mishap, he had to answer several phone calls from repo