w that he h young man find his own way in the sense that he  ad better back off and let the world. He may also have begun to was paying a penalty for |  ena us career, which had kept him  203 * HAP  away from his children so much of the time while they were growing up; but even if he did sense this there was very little he could do about it. His career was now taking so much of his time it separated him more than ever from his family  In the summer of 1939, he saw Lindbergh frequently. He appoint- ed him to the board on which Lindbergh had agreed to serve.’” He took him to congressional hearings and introduced him to influential con gressmen who needed to be told about the rising strength of Germany He also introduced him to scientists like Dr. Vannevar Bush, and to George Marshall, who was to become Army chief of staff on September 1, when General Craig retired.  Once, after a luncheon with Dr. Bush, a distinguished electrical engineer and president of the Carnegie Institution, Arnold and Lind- bergh had a few minutes to chat in Arnold's office  Arnold said to Lindbergh, “Do you mind if I ask you a personal  question  Lindbergh said, “Go ahead.”  “What are you shooting at?” Arnold wanted to know. “Have you set a goal for yourself, or do you just take life as it comes?”  Life was sufficiently complex, Lindbergh observed, without trying to foresee the future. So he seldom worked for a very distant objective. He liked to feel his way along and let life have a hand in guiding its own direction.  Arnold, after listening to this, said he felt the same way He had never set any definite objective as his life's work.  Before that summer ended, however, he was destined to see before him a definite objective that would constitute his life’s work. On the evening of August 31, Lindbergh came to his home for dinner. Arnold was alone. Bee and David were at Nag’s Head, North Carolina, where the climate gave Bee at least some relief from her hay fever. Lindbergh brought with him Co