g from my persistent battles for the B-17." Knerr noted that “subsequent examination at Walter Reed [Hospital] cleared me.”  In April 1939, as a civilian, Knerr continued his crusade for a separate air force by sending a paper to President Roosevelt, deploring the fact that Air Corps operational units had been subjected to the chief of Air Corps (Arnold). As administration always took precedence over efficiency in operation.” What was needed, he wrote, was “a United States Air Corps within the War Department, with a Chief of Staff for Air reporting direct to the  result, he charged, “convenience of  Secretary of War.” Four weeks later, in a letter to Andrews, Knerr stated that Arnold  was “furious” about this paper, as he may very well have been Though the president apparently gave it some attention, nothing was done about it. It could hardly have been forgotten, however, when, in May 1941, Andrews wrote to George Brett, then acting Air Corps chief under Arnold, asking him to reactivate Knerr as a brigadier general and  Thomas M. Coffey 34  Britain sou  ut territorial aggrandizement, and that both nations, after the war, would foster the basic freedoms of all people, vanquished as well as victors  While the president and the prime minister worked on the wording of the charter, their top generals and admirals conferred about more concrete military possibilities. Once again Arnold was disappointed by the narrowness of British thinking and appalled by the number of aircraft and amount of materiel they were secking from America. They wanted four thousand heavy bombers at a time when the United States was producing only five hundred a month. Yet they didn’t seem to have any long-range plan that anticipated the defeat of Germany or even the invasion of the European continent.  ‘British long-range plan,” Arnold wrote in his diary, “is to keep giving as little as possible in remote areas where they can meet Germans on even terms, always hoping for a break—a miracle—an inter