rnold but they did not have a meetir minds. Arnold continued to believe de Seversky was too much perfectionist to adapt himself to the sort of mass production the required. He ended their conversation by demanding that de Seve divorce himself from the operation of the company and replace hin with a man whom Arnold nominated. In effect, Arnold was deman that de Seversky fire himself from his own company if he wantec company to do business with the Air Forces. De Seversky ultim  capitulated and the output of P-47s began to climb.  Arnold and the Army Air Forces gained a measure of new pre on February 9, 1942, when he took his place as a member at the formal meeting of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, a body of four —Admirals William D. Leahy and Ernest King, Generals Marshall Arnold—which thereafter constituted the American High Comm The concept of the Joint Chiefs was born at the Argentia Conferen August 1941, when the Americans felt the need for an agency to pai  the British command structure. President Roosevelt had invited Ax    Thomas M. Coffey 260  February 23, 1942, two weeks after the first formal meeting of the Joint  Chiefs, Eisenhower wrote: “Admiral King is an arbitrary, stubborn type  Thomas M. Coffey 260  February 23, 1942, two weeks after the first formal meeting of the Joint Chiefs, Eisenhower wrote: “Admiral King is an arbitrary, stubborn type  with too much brain and a tendency toward bullying his juniors. But I  think he wants to fight, which is vastly encouraging.”  King did indeed want to fight. The great fighting record of the Navy in World War II is partly a reflection of his insistent personality But unfortunately for Marshall and Arnold, who had to cope with him, he sometimes seemed as willing to fight the Army as he was to fight the Japanese. And he was so eager to fight the Japanese that he sometimes seemed unable to understand or accept the Allied grand strategy, agreed upon by Roosevelt and Churchill, to hold off the Japanese while concentrating