en like Harold George, Kenneth Walk- er, Orvil Anderson, Edgar Sorenson, and Mack Snyder—to express  their most critical views on “any question that was asked, any problem that was posed.” Anderson recalled that “even while Arnold was Assistant Chief, he sent down directives to the Air Corps Board, established what we were to pursue.”  One key problem that had been argued informally for several years within the / future war, would the corps have greater need for fighters or bomb- ers?!! Would bombers be able to defend themselves on long missions, or would they need fighter protection? When the national policy was defensive, how was it possible to justify investment in bombers, which were patently offensive weapons? On the other hand, how could a fighter, which was primarily a defensive weapon, damage the enemy enough to help win a war? These arguments were destined to continue until the grim realities of the air war over Europe imposed a somewhat tardy and therefore expensive solution. It was a solution w hich did not  Corps was the fighter-versus-bomber controversy. In any  fit the prevailing theories of 193: Because almost all airmen believed in the airplane as an offensive  weapon, the Air Corps strategy had always been based on offense, even when the nation’s psychology was defensive. The bomber, therefore, was the darling of the corps. No airmen argued that fighters were    homas M. Coffey 198  superfluous, but many thought their future was limited, espec ially since it was becoming apparent that the foreseeable four-engine bomber  Thomas M. Coffey 198  superfluous, but many thought their future was limited, especially since it was becoming apparent that the foreseeable four-engine bomber would have a much longer range than the foreseeable fighter planes. Air Corps Board members like Anderson, Sorenson, and Snyder argued, however, that these developments would not eliminate the need for fighters, but that the range of fighters would have to be increased, becaus