their operation with all the precision and coordination of a military attack, they let loose such a varied and deafening series of salvos from every corner of the grounds that, in Arnold’s words, “bugles blew, sirens sounded, officers and men tumbled from their beds, the whole reservation was alive.”  The climax of the fiery bombardment, ignited by Arnold himself on the roof of his barracks, was an elaborate pinwheel display that spelled out “1907—Never Again!” What the “Never Again” was supposed to mean not even Arnold seemed to know—perhaps it was a confection someone had ordered from the fireworks dealer, then rejected. In any case, for Arnold it meant he would never again be involved in a stunt like this; when he put his match to the display it lit up the whole roof, and there he was, as he later recalled, “silhouetted against the light of my own handiwork, in full view of the entire corps.”  He won for his enterprise on this occasion not just the applause of his peers but also a swift response from his superiors. He was assigned to several weeks of solitary confinement on the top floor of the barracks, allowed out only to attend classes and to walk endless tours of the quad, in full uniform with a rifle on his shoulder. This was doubly embarrass- ing because, owing to circumstances for which his father was responsi- ble, a very pretty young lady from back home in Ardmore was just then making plans to come and visit him. Her name was Eleanor Pool and that was almost as much as Arnold knew about her. She was not his girl friend. He had no girl friends. In fact, though their families were acquainted, and he had seen her a few times, he had never met her."* The Pools were bankers, members of the Ardmore gentry, as it were, and owners of a large Tudor-style house, with tennis court, in the best part of town. Since Herbert Arnold was the most respected physician in the area, he was their family doctor, but he was not part of their social milieu. There were some aspec