stiff reprimand.”  It was July 20 before all the reports were in and Craig summoned Arnold to San Francisco for an explanation. Meanwhile, the general had found another reason to be annoyed at Arnold. In May, Craig had sent a telegram to March Field that said: “Can you take care of 1,500 CCC boys  at your station effective next week  The Civilian Conservation Corps was one of many measures the new president, Franklin D. Roosevelt, was then instituting to stem the catastrophic nationwide economic panic. It was designed to employ hundreds of thousands of otherwise idle young men in such resource- conservation projects as reforestation and flood control. Arnold had nothing against it, but at the moment he was too busy to help out. He ent a return wire to Ninth Corps headquarters: “We are having  maneuvers here now. All the combat type airplanes in the U.S. Air Corps are engaged. Cannot take care of CCC boys at present.”  The following day, Craig’s reply arrived: “You probably do not understand. This is an Executive Order of the President who says that 2C camps will be established and will be administered by the U.S. Army. Can you take care of 3,000 CCC boys effective immediate}  This time Arnold’s answer was affirmative and the boys began to arrive at March within a week. By July, the field was filling up with them and Arnold, whose attention had been caught, was already enthusiastic about this opportunity to preach the Air Corps doctrine to three thousand potential soldiers. But he didn't know how Craig felt about his  initial impertinence in rejecting the project, nor did he know whether he could make Craig accept his reason for sending relief to the Long Beach quake victims without authorization The reason had been simple enough. Those people needed help and old Colonel Hilton, whose job it was to help them, couldn't be found. Yet Craig, like Hilton, was getting along in age, and he was known to be a stern, strict soldier who liked to  stick to the rules. On the mor