as M. Coffey 202  sent to a branch of the service his father loathed. If he was not welcome in his father’s branch, it must mean that, for some reason, his father was rejecting him,  Thomas M. Coffey 202  sent to a branch of the service his father loathed. If he was not welcome in his father’s branch, it must mean that, for some reason, his father was rejecting him.  As he prepared to leave the Naval Academy, depressed and miserable, he wasn’t sure what to think of himself. It seemed that whenever he had failed at something in the past, his father had said not “I'm sorry,” but “What the hell are you going to do now?” Less than  eager to hear that again, Bruce decided not to return to V /ashington. His father, anticipating this possibility, sent an aide to see him. The aide, a captain, was sympathetic to the young man because he too had  ll bet  once left the Naval Academy under similar circumstances. you're getting ready to sign onto a ship,” he said to Bruce. “That's what I almost did.”  Bruce admitted it was exactly what he intended  “You can do that if you wish,” the captain said, “but you've got to face the old man sometime. It’s easier to get it over with right away.”  Sufficiently persuaded, Bruce returned home. His mother cried. His father bellowed, “What the hell are you ge »ing to do now?”  Nothing had changed. “I'd like to try for West Point,” Bruce said.  “You can't go to West Point,” his father insisted  Having just been dismissed from the Naval Academy, Bruce could hardly argue that. He decided to go to New York, see the World's Fair, and figure out what to do with his life. The decision came quickly after he left Washington. He knew that each year some s« "idiers were selected through competition to attend West Point. He would enlist in the Army and, with luck, win one of the soldier appointments, then enter the academy whether his father liked it or not  When he called home to announce proudly that he had enlisted, his father, still angry and disappoi