sion, with the ni’?"” Janes following each other and bombing individually.  ia One bomber crashed on takeoff and four others had to turn back st” Secause of mechanical problems. Saunders dropped his bombs at 1 1:38 chil ».m., Tokyo time, and having lit the target for those behind him, headed \iriitl or home. But only forty-seven of those behind him were able to find pl Yawata. Of the sixty-eight planes that dropped bombs, twenty-one ist ynloaded on what were euphemistically called “other targets.” Though i # apanese antiaircraft fire was able to destroy only one plane, seven were init!” ost because of various malfunctions. And after these melancholy statis- itt ics had been compiled, the most disheartening of all had now become  ia py Aerial photos showed that only one bomb had hit what might ~quarters  parent. jt 5@ called a significant target—a power house—and it was thre wi! of a mile away from the coke ovens that were the primary targets. jg itt The B-29 hadn’t yet come close to proving it was worth the money it it had cost. It was only fair to admit, though, that its attempt to do so from ii” bases deep in China had been a handicap almost impossible to over- ome. It would soon get a better chance to show what it could do. On ait! June 30, the Navy and Marines had captured enough of Saipan so that dM" onstruction could begin on the first B-29 installations there. From Wi” Saipan, the heart of Japan was only 1,200 miles away, and as soon as the uw "B95 were based there, the problem of supplying them would be almost io!" stiminated. Arnold could only hope that by then the plane's other sit problems would also be eliminated. The engines were still overheating, ii" blowing out their cylinder heads, leaking oil, and catching fire. And if  i il  Thomas M. Coffey * 348  he faced in China. There was general sentiment among the Combined Chiefs in favor of the U.S. Navy's Central Pacific path to Japan; but Marshall, keenly aware of MacArthur's rabid political following in