rious at  this. It seemed to him that the Army Air Forces “was expected to give everything to everybody.” From then on, he decided, he would “take a much more hard-boiled attitude.”  While he was having his troubles with Towers, the British were preparing to do a little more work on him. Because he was the giver and they were very conscious of being the receivers, they could hardly be ungracious. But Portal did point out that it would be a few months at best before the Eighth Air Force could operate against Germany, whereas he had trained pilots who could fly all available American bombers immediately, If Arnold would send the heavy bombers to the R.A.F., he would be willing, he said, to give them back as soon as American units were ready for them. It sounded like a reasonable proposal, but Arnold resisted it when he realized his units could never get ready if they had no airplanes  He was also invited to visit the headquarters of the British bomber  command, which was now under the direction of Air Marshal Harris,  HAP  whom Arnold had known in Washington. Harris had already construct- ed what he called his “conversion room,” in which there were three- dimensional photographic displays of the horrendous damage the R.A.F. had already inflicted upon German cities during their night bombing raids.'* Harris and Eaker, though they were personally the best of friends (Harris, in a letter to Arnold, had said of Eaker: “He's a great ."" were engaged in a lively dialogue about that other important difference of opinion between the Americans and the British: night versus day bombing. Harris took Arnold into his conversion room to show him what the R.A.F. night bombers had done to Rostock on the  man’  Baltic, and to the Heinkel aircraft factory at Marienehe. Arnold was impressed. “I could see that R.A.I magnificent job. Their operations gave us something to shoot at.” But he was not sufficiently impressed to send heavy bombers to the R.A.F., or to abandon the American daylig