re essential—productive capacity of airplanes, of pilots, of mechanics, and bases from which to operate. A sound training program is essential to provide replacements.” And there would have to be a large, continuous flow of replacements, both machines and men.  It seemed to Arnold that the president understood all this, but what he kept talking about was airplanes, not pilots or schools or air bases. In addition to the mere 178 planes provided in the 1940 budget, he wanted another 10,000, which would cost, in his estimate, $300 million, And he  185 & HAP  wanted the factories enlarged to a capacity of 20,000 planes per year, because Hitler's potential enemies, especially France and England, would soon be desperately eager to buy planes from the United States.  Arnold, suddenly alarmed at the prospect of having 10,000 planes and not enough fields to keep them or pilots to fly them, suggested immediate expansion of the Air Corps to 7,500 combat planes plus 2,500 training planes. In this plan the president concurred.  Arnold was elated at the end of this meeting. He and Colonel Burns virtually hustled General Craig into a car and drove him to Arnold's office for what Arnold called “a get-rich-quick course in the elements necessary to make an air force.” Though they had both been working on Craig for some time, he had not been fully converted until that day. But the president had shaken him mightily and forced him to see the light “He [Craig] was a very apt pupil and from then on until his tour was completed,” Arnold later recalled, “fought for our program.”  On September 29, 1938, the day after that crucial White House meeting, Arnold was named chief of the Air Corps, Perhaps he had done himself some good with his performance before the president. But the steadfast support of General Craig, who had fought for his appoint- ment despite their long-standing private disagreement about air power, and the relatively new but powerful support of Harry Hopkins, had not  hurt hi