than a return to his office routine, but instead of going west, he decided to go east, to Europe, where he had been planning to go (for the Yalta Conference) when he was stricken. Larry Kuter had substituted ably for him at Yalta, but there were other matters that still needed  attention in Europe. Some of his best senior officers were there and it was time for all of them to start thinking about the future of the Air Forces. They ought to be getting ready to resume the long-dormant campaign for a separate air force. He would also have to choose one of these men to come home and run the Air Forces as his deputy because his doctors forbade him to resume a full schedule. And he was going to have to send Barney Giles to the Pacific to replace Miff Harmon, whose plane had just disappeared on a routine flight, Barney hadn't yet been given his tour of duty in the field, and it was unfair to deprive him of it,  Arnold gathered his small personal staff together on March 31 (including Dr. Marquardt this time, as well as Beebe and Clair Peterson) for a flight to Bermuda en route to Paris. They landed the second of April,'’® and Arnold was ushered into the suite at the Ritz that Goering had occupied on his triumphant trips to Paris. All the rooms were large  Thomas M. Coffey * 360  some good news to forward. The A.T.C, (now flying C-54s) had carried  44,000 tons of materiel over the Hump to China in January. And “over a hundred” B-29s had hit Kobe with incendiaries the day before, starting  great fires. Only one plane was lost, and it ditched in the water so near Saipan that only one man was missing  This news didn’t cheer Arnold as much as Giles may have expected, Arnold's reaction was, “Grand, but why not 150 or 200 [B-29s]?"”*  By February 16, his health was apparently improving because his usual impatience had returned. On that day he sent Giles a letter devoted to his old theme: get more B-29s in the air against Japan. He was concerned about two newspaper stories he had s