thlete, caught it and threw it back to him  When Arnold went home that night he had a gash on his forehead. “Oh, that Rosie!” he exclaimed to his son David, who asked him what had happened.’ But shortly thereafter, Rosie O'Donnell got his wish. He took command of the 73rd Wing of what would soon become the Twentieth Air Force, and headed for Kansas to learn how to fly the Superfortress.  Arnold found time in January to fly to California for his first look at his ranch, and he liked what he saw. Lois drove up from San Francisco to inspect it with him, and he enjoyed that, too. He was still indulgent to his  daughter. Though he knew she drank too much, she usually ma:  aged to  colin i pee Ga tae a inp Ae ie  Hed then dk he wrk a ea (Cinemas  teed th fa cl  the aden eet ena ch get he  Ln Sua eda eb as ane cela a cate be tes He ame pain 1 He ht  katara le Tne  ana barn  Ady eo bd do oe wl rc rca  oa Hs ier nnde Mfytsolwe arukagi  lai vs ae rc ns sige i mc Heb  diary Ns v0  ens pt  wal Is  rca ‘owl gt aril ly Devapala inlay oem oa i in oh  vay ig te hod i  De we ing ea i  Ee, ld bg igh lope ls ee  soe, at a, ny, ol 4 i cube  nme a  ba,  WM M0 ua hag i hc of ae  we ‘ally th” Ace il ed i ths  Aon wy at re ae ed ie ae Mara  tana ay ber Dente: ra psa Outi a, yt Die od, ey a een ena asc dhe psa ich Big Mek Tee et aa gels wed ad ae het an hin Ps Tea ee  Wy AT Ar i  goog pe ceca w hel  ti fi cha  is an gh  ct er a  ns bein eh re hs hikes cl  nxn ad al shoved th cd ened ais bl ea ens i eb bk as sl ach  janis hath  ifs gts ne ing, i ar we arg vs cv  339 « HAP  ey're going to be centrally directed and controlled, ; to be used for the defeat of Japan. If any of them such targets as the (Japanese-held) oil fields in which MacArthur might conceivably want to use or one of his deputies would send them there. He e sure MacArthur understood and accepted this jo my best to tell him, and I'll do my best to make  I'm not going to make him like it. ived in Australia, he saw Kenney first an