r excuses to go to the Savoy May this not be the result of having a leader who is not sufficiently aggressive? Has Monk Hunter lost his spirit—his dash? 1 know he isn't the Monk Hunter I used to know. He seems to be playing safe on most of his missions.  Is not the same thing true of the Bomber Command? Does it not Is the staff what it should be? Let me  lack an aggressive leader? have your frank reactions to the above  On May 1, Andrews answered Arnold, agreeing with him that both Bomber and Fighter Command should be more aggressive, but reserving judgment on what should be done about it. Unfortunately, this was the last letter Arnold would ever receive from his old friend and long-time rival for American air leadership. On May 10, Andrews was killed during a flight from England to Iceland when his plane crashed against  Thomas M. Coffey * 310  Arnold said, “To hell with ‘em. We'll go ahead with our own.”  After reading the plan, Arnold buzzed his chief of staff, Strate- meyer, and said, “I want Major McKee to go to Africa immediately.”  Stratemeyer reminded Arnold that McKee was on the staff of Gen Gordon Saville, director of air defense. Stratemeyer may also have had in mind McKe fact that he was a nonflying officer. That was an important liability in the  "s youth and inexperience in Air Forces methods, and the  minds of many veteran airmen, but it apparently made no difference to Arnold. “I don’t give a goddamn who he works for,” he said. “You can send him in my plane.” By the end of the day, McKee, w ho had never flown a plane, was on his way to Africa to tell Tooey Spaatz what kind of an air defense he needed. (Before the end of his career, McKee became the first nonflying officer to win four-star rank.)  Arnold's celebrated impatience, possibly exacerbated by his heart condition, directed itself now against Spaatz in North Africa, and eventually against Eaker in England, He followed one hurry-up memo to Spaatz with another, which asked Spaatz not to be impat