y manage to get over to the bed and lie down. When Simmons picked up Mrs, Streett,  he announced that the general was sick again. She arrived to find him  still in bed. While he seemed comfortable, she thought he looked frightened, even when he pounded his chest to show her how healthy he was. She stayed only ten minutes, feeling he should get some rest.*  Three days later, Gene Beebe, who had recently returned from China as a brigadier general, was called into Arnold’s office. Dave Grant, the Air Forces’ chief flight surgeon, was there with Suzy Adkins and they were both worried. Arnold hadn't come to work for three days, and when Grant tried to visit him, he had refused to let the doctor into his quarters. He had told his orderly not to admit anyone. Would Beebe please go over and find out what was wrong?”  When Beebe arrived, the orderly, afraid to disobey Arnold, tried to turn him away, but Beebe shouted through the door loud enough to be heard upstairs, “It’s Gene!”  Arnold shouted back, “Come up here.’  Beebe found him still in bed. “I guess I had an attack of some kind,” he admitted.  Beebe, who had been in the Orient when the earlier attacks occurred, may not have known, since Arnold was so secretive about his health, that he had suffered three coronaries, and that this was probably another. “What do you want to do about it?” he asked.  Thomas M. Coffey * 358  realized that in order to do considerable damage, large numbers of B-29s would have to deliver their loads of bombs against Japan continuously and consistently, and yet in spite of the above, really and truly, our average daily d  very rate against Jap  n is very, very  small Unless something drastic is done to change this condition soon, it will not be long before the B-29 is just another tactical airplane. These airplanes are quite expensive and carry with  them a crew of 12 men, and yet our results are far from what we expected and what everyone else expects  Three days after he wrote this memo, Arn