epresented adequate reinforcements, but he had no more to spare.  By late November, Japan had two diplomats in Washington, Admir- al Kichisaburo Nomura and Saburo Kurusu, conducting negotiations with the State Department. These negotiations, which were generally assumed to represent the last chance for continuing peace in the Pacific, were obviously going badly. Nevertheless, American military men seemed unable to grasp the probability that guns would soon be firing and bombs exploding. Arnold, for instance, would hardly have planned to go quail-hunting if he had been at all suspicious that the country was at the very brink of war  In Arnold’s case, however, there was some excuse for a lack of urgency. Even on December 4, his last day in Washington before leaving for the coast, he had no current information about what was happening in the Pacific.  “I had no reason,” he later recalled, “to believe the Japanese fleet had left the east coast of Asia days before, had headed eastward through the mandated islands, and was now a short distance from the Hawaiian Islands. That bit of information—about the Japanese fleet being loose, known to many War and Navy Department officials—had never been given to me. Like most officers in the War Department, I was under the impression that, if a Japanese attack occurred, it would be made first against the Philippines and then would be carried down the east coast of Asia to Singapore, to the Islands of Borneo, Java and Sumatra.” The Air Corps at that time had no intelligence organization of its own, and was not always privy to Army Intelligence information  As it happened, Arnold picked a good time to get out of W ashing- ton. On December 4, the Chicago Tribune and Washington Times-Herald,  243 * HAP  both isolationist papers, exposed the existence of a document called “Rainbow Five,” a joint Army-Navy paper that outlined military strategy to be pursued in the event of war against Germany and Japan. It was the kind of contingency plan