—@ @  ANY Os  ‘il he end of World War I] marked, in effect, the end of Hap Arnold's  active career. Though it was not until six months later, on Febra-  ary 9, 1946, that he resigned as commanding general, Army Air Forces,  the dynamic drive for which he had become famous began to diminish  soon after Germany and Japan surrendered. He was a tired man, his energy drained by seven years of unremitting effort to build the Air Forces, his personal life upset by his bewildering difficulties with his wife. and his very existence threatened by the four heart attacks he had suffered, By any reasonable measurement, he was a casualty of the war  He continued to preside over the Air Forces, He directed the effort toward unification of the armed services and parity among the Army Navy, and Air Force, but other men (notably Carl Spaatz) carried the heavy burden in that campaign. He steered the Air Forces toward a continuing program of scientific research and technological develop: ment. He watched his staff reduce the size of the forces from 2,400,000 people and 72,000 airplanes to a half million people and 10,000 planes. But he insisted that the relatively new Air Transport Command survive the demobilization. It would be needed, he said, as a link between installations around the world, and as a means of deploying troops quickly in case of an emergency.’ At the same time, he suggested that surplus aircraft be melted down and the metal be salvaged. His advice about the A.T.C. prevailed but his effort to save metals was ignored  During much of September, Bee was in California, which left him alone in Washington, He had now shortened his work day, coming home usually in the early afternoon to write to her, rest for an hour or so, and walk the dogs, His letters showed his continuing concern about her health: “All my love—get some curves, eat well, be your own sweet self and come home to your Hap.”  In October he wrote a remarkable article entitled “Our Power to Destroy War," in whi