ce.” And since it was Marshall who had  promoted Kuter, none of Arnold’s staff men could complain to him about it.  Marshall, however, wasn't yet satisfied with the work of the air staff. One day two of its members went to Arnold with a plan to ease the submarine menace in the Adantic by securing the Azores Arnold was sufficiently interested to ask Marshall to listen to it, and Marshall in turn asked Kuter to attend.  The two officers made their presentation, which called for the use  Thomas M. Coffey 2  negotiate with the British for headquarters, airdromes, communications, all the stuff we'll need, Understudy the British and work out the plans. Then I'll get you some bombers and some crews. You'll be in charge of the Eighth Air Force Bomber Command.”  “Bombers!” Eaker exclaimed. “But I've been in fighters all my life!”  “That's why I'm giving you this job,” Arnold said. “I want you to put some fight into the bombers.”'*  “What do I do for a staff ?”  “I can spare two or three good men,”  Arnold said. “Beyond that I suggest you find yourself some civilians. You take a smart civilian, you can make him a smart officer in six weeks or so. But if you take a dumb officer, you'll never make him a smart officer.”  After following this advice, Eaker left for England six weeks later with a staff of six (three career officers and three converted civilians) but with no airplanes, to create the Eighth Bomber Command. Spaatz stayed behind at Bolling Field to organize the Eighth Fighter Command, and to hasten the shipment of supplies, planes, and crews. The American air offensive against Germany had begun—with seven men in civilian clothes on a civilian airliner  During the hectic days after the American entry into the war, Arnold found out what it was like to run an organization that suddenly had to assume life-and-death responsibilities all over the world. While he was fencing with the British and with the U.S. Navy, he was also involved in the much more immediate and desperat