in Foulois, who had always disliked him, could hardly be expected to embrace him now, expecially since he was patently guilty of the breach of discipline with which he was being charged. And General Patrick, who was concerned about what would happen to some of his young officers if they were unable to control their tempers, urged caution upon them One day when Arnold, Spaatz, and Eaker were in his office discussing the pending trial, Patrick warned them that they would be jeopardizing their own careers if they went overboard in defense of Mitchell. All three ignored his advice. Arnold and Spaatz testified for Mitchell. Eaker was an assistant defense counsel. But a sizable segment of officers did  follow the lead of Patrick and Foulois, causing a subtle division of airmen for several years thereafter—those who supported Mitchell and those who did not.  The outcome of the trial was a foregone conclusion. Despite the efforts of Mitchell and his supporters to make air power the issue, the thirteen generals (including Douglas MacArthur) who judged him took into consideration only his evident insubordination, and on that issue found him guilty on December 17, 1925, suspending him from all  military duties and forcing his resignation from the Army.  “Billy had it coming,” Arnold later admitted, “but at the time we didn’t think these things out. As the testimony of any of us who were called to the trial shows, the whole Air Service was angry.””  As for Arnold, his anger manifested itself in his continuing cam- paign for Billy Mitchell and air power from within General Patrick's headquarters. It was this refusal even to lower the key of the campaign that set the stage for his 1926 transfer into exile at Fort Riley, Kansas. Not the least bit intimidated by what had happened to Mitchell, he persisted, with the help of staff colleagues like Millard F. “Miff” Harmon, Ira Eaker, David Lingle, and H. A. “Bert” Dargue, in feeding  Thomas M. Coffey 124  increased appropriation for i