ive the corps more autonomy and much more cohesion. He went to Stimson and asked for authority to develop a plan. Simson gave his blessing and Lovett went right to work.  Arnold, released by Lovett from some of his Washington responsi- bilities, intensified his pressure on the training command to hasten the output of crews, and turned up the heat on the aircraft companies to speed up the production of planes.  His pilot, Gene Beebe, later said of him, “His idea of a good time was to work all day, then go to Bolling Field [in south Washington], fly all night to Los Angeles {in a DC-3], arrive in the morning, visit about five aircraft plants, then go to someone's house for dinner that night  F. W. Conant of Douglas Aircraft recalled that Arnold would come into the plant, gather together the engincers and designers take note of the fact that some plane they were making could fly perhaps three hundred miles an hour, and then say, “I want four hundred miles an hour. Why in the hell can’t somebody give it to me?”  “You'd begin to wonder,” Conant said, “why the hell you couldn't do  it—how you would do it, He was always a step ahead of everybody  Thomas M. Coffey 999  New York stockbroker and director of the Union Pacific Railroad, had been a naval aviator, in command of U.S. Naval Air Squadron Number One, during the First World War. He had come to Patterson’s attention because, during a Union Pacific inspection t  p in the summer of 1939, he had taken it upon himself to visit the West Coast aircraft companies. With war looming in Europe, he wanted to know how the U.S. aircraft industry was progressing. He might also have been interested in its investment potential. A skillful and well-trained business observer, he looked at several companies and was distressed to find them far behind their British and German counterparts. For the benefit of his partners, he wrote a report of this trip. James Forrestal, one of his neighbors on Long Island and a man destined to become secre