everything possible to make them comfortable, but there was one thing  Thomas M. Coffey * 126  air power propaganda to friendly newsmen and radio commentator Though the General Staff had ordered all of the air zealots to cease their public agitation, General Patrick himself, whose belief in air power 1, seemed  remained steadfast despite his restraint during the Mitchell tria sympathetic to these young men on his staff who refused to surrender. They didn't tell him openly what they were doing, to be sure, but neither did they conceal their activities from him, which explained why he felt no need to investigate when Secretary of War Dwight F. Davis ordered him, in early February, to find out who in his office was leaking anti-Navy and anti-General Staff information to certain congressmen, newsmen, and a Philadelphia radio commentator, He knew the chief culprits were Arnold and Dargue. And if he had to sacrifice one of them, he was hardly likely to choose Dargue, a very able officer whom he liked personally. It would be Arnold, whom he cordially disliked.  When Patrick called Arnold in to give him a choice between a  court-martial and resignation from the service, he undoubtedly expect- ed Arnold to choose the latter. He may even have known that Arnold, for some time, had been planning to resign as soon as Pan American Airways got off the ground. But he miscalculated Arnold's probable reaction. Arnold subscribed staunchly to the dictum that a man must never abandon a fortress under siege, and he perceived the Air Service as being woefully besieged. He may also have perceived, more cynically, that the army could not afford another trial like the Mitchell fiasco. In any case, it didn’t take him long to decide that he would ask for the court-martial. And he must have derived considerable satisfaction from watching Patrick's jaw drop when he returned to the general's office the next day and T'll take the court.” He could not have imagined, however, that Patrick would be s