ive duty later that month when Marshall resigned as chief of staff to become ambassador to China. Did this mean Marshall had won their five-dollar bet as to which of them would retire first? Arnold didn’t think so, because Marshall's China job could hardly be considered a retirement. At Christmastime he  d letters with Bob Lovett, who had already retired and was  exchange 3  sitting in the Florida sun, dreadfully missing the Air Fore In early January, with Bee and Lois, Arnold embarked on a trip to in hemisphere aviation  Ps.  South America representing the president  matters, He intended to visit Colombia, Peru, Chile, Brazil, and Argenti-  na, but the high altitude in Bogota affected his heart and by the time he reached Lima he had developed a flutter severe enough to make him call  off the rest of the trip and return to the hospital in Coral Gables. When  he flew from there to Washington in  retirement ceremony. One of his last acts, as part of the retirement process, was to gather auditorium and talk to them  rly February, it was only for his  his headquarters personnel in the Pentagon about what they had been through, what they were going through, and what kind of future they might expect. He talked about the infancy and  Ry Css  ai he end of World War II marked, in effect, the end of Hap Arnold's active career. Though it was not until six months later, on Febru-  ary 9, 1946, that he resigned as commanding  general, Army Air Forces the dynamic drive for which he had become famous began to diminish soon after Germany and Japan surrendered. He was a tired man, his energy drained by seven vears of unremitting effort to build the Air Forces, his personal life upset by his bewildering difficulties with his wife, and his very existence threatened by the four heart attacks he had suffered. By any reasonable measurement, he was a casualty of the war  He continued to preside over the Air Forces. He directed the effort  toward unification of the armed services and parit