rt to Gen, Mark Clark's headquarters inthe tered uniform to learn cat his  rear, He arived there ina muds father was coming into Fogta, across the  of aly fom Naps, and  wanted tose him,  An hour later, Han, sill in his muddy uniform, was ona C4 10 Foggia, where he was waiting when his fuer, with Spaata and Rose (ODonnel landed at in the aferoon, Arno had soe good news from hone wth which o greet him, As Hank knew, Aol bad wanted for many yatsto own a ranch in California where he cou! hve ou his retement, Noone took his dream serous caus, tanks othe Depression Joes and amily emergencies, he and Bee had been ableto accumlate only a fev thousand dallas in savings during bis long rary carer, Bu there were sil ome beatiful pants of Calfomia where nd prices were low, Belore be left Washington on ti trip, Bee fad also ll for San Pando, where Lois had taken an parte to vat other husband’ ts tour of ea duty, Amol had asked Bee to  * HAP  left,” Hank said to Rosie. “Then they'll  1 their left, whereupon both Hank and t ditch. The third shell came right at them.  ral Arnold saw them in the ditch and You look like a couple of  down ther  ishman and one of the few men around what he pleased to him, spoke sharply. n you'd have looked if that thing had hit  » Arnold got a good look at war in all its 1 he wrote in his diary that night showed made upon him:  Bombs and shells bursting on the 10 yards away. Men crouching behind ader bushes and trees. AA guns 19s overhead Spithires coming into the ing behind any kind of cover, German vements up the road from the hill from running over a mine. Five bodies + ground. ... Jeeps and mud, trucks oridges and culverts blown out by towns demolished. . . . Hospitals bomb and shell splinters from [a] angled hand together, tying a body ent tore loose a hip and almost all of nd abdomen the size of a football rds, dying, but still smiling and saying  star general and one of the nation’s most the first time in his life Arnold had been  1 to Washingt