ally correct in his remarks to Anderson. Arnold was not a chief of staff. But neither was Leahy, although he was now called the president's chief of staff, whatever that might mean. And Arnold was unquestionably subordinate to the War Department. But so  261 * HAP  was King subordinate to the Navy Department. If the president decided the War Department should have two generals on the Joint Chiefs of Staff to balance the Navy's two admirals, that settled the matter. It didn’t  mean, however, that Arnold would have an easy time with the Navy  The first of his serious Navy troubles in wartime began on February 14 when King formally asked him to allocate to the Navy four hundred  Thomas M. Coffey 260  February 23, 1942, two weeks after the first formal meeting of the Joint Chiefs, Eisenhower wrote: “Admiral King is an arbitrary, stubborn type  with too much brain and a tendency toward bullying his juniors. But I  think he wants to fight, which is vastly encouraging.”  King did indeed want to fight. The great fighting record of the Navy in World War II is partly a reflection of his insistent personality But unfortunately for Marshall and Arnold, who had to cope with him, he sometimes seemed as willing to fight the Army as he was to fight the Japanese. And he was so eager to fight the Japanese that he sometimes seemed unable to understand or accept the Allied grand strategy, agreed upon by Roosevelt and Churchill, to hold off the Japanese while concentrating on the defeat of Germany  King’s most formidable aide on the staff of the Joint Chiefs, Rear Adm. Charles M. “Savvy” Cooke, who was also chief of naval war plans, often acted as if he had been made in King’s image and likeness, Orvil Anderson, the Air Forces chief of plans, could not get Cooke to recognize him as an equal on the staff  Cooke, referring to Arnold, said to Anderson one day, “Where do you get the queer idea that your man is a chief of staff ?”  “By edict,” Anderson answered. “By some new terms the presid