think this over carefully? Everyone in the services that I have met who knows you has you spottec al outstanding people  I am not preaching—for God knows | am not that kind—but where you have so much ahead of you, why spoil it?!*  383. * HAP  In mid-May 1948, Bee traveled east to see her aging mother. Arnold had recovered sufficiently to be left alone with the two dogs, but without his wife, he wrote the Snowdens, “the house seems sort of empty.”"® He kept as busy as possible dictating his autobiography, in which he had reached the year 1940, but he wasn't able to work full days on the book  “It seems like years since they put me to bed,” he wrote to Lois and Ernie on May 2% are all kinds of restrictions placed upon me that keep me under control.  “Now | am allowed to go around the farm but there  I cannot go to town, San Francisco, as yet, but they tell me I can sometime soon. I cannot climb hills. I must not get tired. However, when you have two strikes on you, I guess that a fellow can't be too choosey.” In June, indications came from West Point that David, finishing his third year there, was likely to encounter the same difficulty as Hank and Bruce had in passing the eye examination for flight training It looked as if Hap Arnold would never have a son in the Air Force. One day he called Bruce, now stationed at Point Mugu in southern California, and asked him urgently to come up to Sonoma for a visit. When Bruce arrived, his father sat him at a table, then settled down across from him and put a full bottle of bourbon between them. .” he said,  ir Force,”  “If necessary, we're going to sit here and finish this botth  “while you convince me why you can’t transfer to the 4  They talked for a long time and Bruce explained the basic problem. In the Air Force, the highest ranks and the best jobs were reserved almost exclusively for flying officers. But he was not and could not become a pilot. Arnold, unable to deny that this had always been so, insisted that times were