urement?” There was no graceful way for Arnold to explain why Morgenthau was exercising powers that should have belonged to the War and Navy departments. He ended by raising more  questions than he answered, and by expl: ning almost nothing. He soon wished he had explained even less.  The very next day, when Morgenthau was called to testify before the same committee, he pointed out that Arnold had signed the telegram authorizing the flight. He did not disclose that it was at his insistence, and even then only after a direct order from President Roosevelt, that Arnold had sent the telegram  The president, in a press conference that same day, showed his annoyance at being embarrassed by the isolationists and the way his own people had handled the entire matter. Two days later he voiced his dissatisfaction to his old friend Morgenthau in a stern private session. To Arnold he said nothing at the time, but as Arnold was becoming aware, Franklin Roosevelt had a way of remembering everything.  On April 26, 1939, the president signed an appropriations bill that directed the War Department to order 571 bombers and fighters—a measure that slightly alleviated the Air Corps’ scarcity of planes. But the sment of the Chemidlin crash did not alter Roosevelt's and  embar Morgenthau's intention of sending as many planes as possible to France  and England. The desperate need for those planes in preparation for almost certain war against Hitler was as evident to Arnold as it was to the president, and it put both of them in a difficult situation because they shared the responsibility of building up American air power. But while that was only one of Roosevelt's responsibilities, it was Arnold’s sole responsibility and therefore his first pr iority. He decided in this instance that the best way to serve his commander-in-chief was to resist him as  Thomas M. Coffey 194  Assistant Secretary of War Johnson, who seldom got along with Woodring but agreed with him on this issue, asked the pres