er whom he liked personally. It would be Arnold, whom he cordially disliked.  When Patrick called Arnold in to give him a choice between a court-martial and resignation from the service, he undoubtedly expect- ed Arnold to choose the latter, He may even have known that Arnold, for some time, had been planning to resign as soon as Pan American Airways got off the ground. But he miscalculated Arnold's probable reaction. Arnold subscribed staunchly to the dictum that a man must never abandon a fortress under siege, and he perceived the Air Service as being woefully besieged. He may also have perceived, more cynically, that the army could not afford another trial like the Mitchell fiasco. In any case, it didn’t take him long to decide that he would ask for the court-martial. And he must have derived considerable satisfaction from watching Patrick's jaw drop when he returned to the general's office the I'll take the court.” He could not have imagined, however, that Patrick would be so diabolical as to send him to  next day and announced,  that desolate installation Fort Riley, the scene of his near-crash in 19  the most traumatic experience of his military career  Despite any satisfaction he may have derived from facing this new adversity squarely, Arnold and his family now found themselves in difficult times. On February 17, 1926, Patrick held a press conference at which he condemned the action of certain men in his office who, “entirely without his knowledge, and through mistaken zeal,” had endeavored to influence legislation in what he regarded as an improper manner. His investigation disclosed, he said, that only two officers were involved. “Both of them will be reprimanded,” he announced, “and one  of them, no longer wanted in my office, will be sent to another station,”  Thomas M. Coffey * 126  air power propaganda to friendly newsmen and radio commentator Though the General Staff had ordered all of the air zealots to cease their public agitation, General Patrick h