t. Though he had bee awaiting it, he was now, suddenly, too much a man of the w anything but casual about it. As he later recalled, he “tossec gaily without looking at it. Does a World Champion Rider  carefully inspect the inscription on his trophy when they |  him  Since he already knew what was in the envelope, he | attention as his mother opened it, extracted the letter, and read. When she raised her eyes from the page, she looked stra son  “You'd better read this, Harley,” she said.  He took it from her and, still without any sense of alarm, 1 down the page until he came to the words: “Henry H. Ar Lieutenant of Infantry.”  His glamorous equestrian world suddenly collapsed. Th striped trousers, the prancing horses, the Kiplingesque charg savage Indians, began to fade from his mind’s eye and dissoly distance. Was it the tobacco in his cheek the day of the graduat exhibition that had cost him his coveted and presumably w Cavalry assignment? He would never find out. But there is lit to assume he was passed over because of such a minor infrac the Cavalry had so many important reasons to reject him. H been a distinguished cadet. An academic rating in the sixtie class of 110 was hardly an indication of brilliance. His sele member of the graduation riding team was a trifling ho balanced against the glaring fact that he had failed ever to cadet officer. His only claim to leadership was his dubious dis an organizer of the infamous Black Hand and its frequent mi popularity with other cadets was a mark in his favor but no! unusual ability. On the basis of his military record to date, could hardly regard him as a promising officer with the potent day assuming high command. On the other hand, there was nc believe he would be an incompetent officer. While his accomy were minor, so were the peccadilloes that had so often go! trouble. And he had, at least, completed the rigorous cour Point. The Army had a place for officers like him, but it was elite, high-riding Cavalry. It was