gton, Arnold decided to assemble all the senior Air Corps officers at the Bolling Field Officers’ Club and tell them his impressions of the situation in England. But before d ving so he had two meetings at the White House with President Roosevelt and Harry Hopkins, After the second meeting, he called Quesada into his office  and said, “Pete, you've got a job. You've got to make my talk tonight, I can’t make it.”  He gave Quesada the distinct impression that President Roosevelt had noticed his negative impression of the English situation and had forbidden him to make his speech for fear he might spread his  pessimism about England.  While the president may not have appreciated Arnold’s opinions about the plight of England, he had apparently begun to appreciate the way Arnold was handling his job, because in June 1941 he approved the plan Robert Lovett had been working on, a plan to reorganize the Air  Corps and give it more autonomy. On June 20, a revision of Army Regulation 9:  established the Army Air Forces (to replace the Army Air Corps) with an air staff of its own and a chief of the Army Air Forces who would also be Army deputy chief of staff for air. Arnold, who was to  fill those two roles, would continue his current duties, but henceforth he  ; anization. For this solidifi- cation of his authority he could thank not only L  would have official control over the entire or gi  Jovett but General  Marshall, who later said, “I tried to give Arnold all the power I could. I tried to make him as nearly as I could Chief of Staff of the Air without any restraint.”  The first piece of work produced by the fledgling air staff was a  remarkable document which became known as AW PD-1, Named after the air staff's recently formed Air War Plans Division  iL Was a projection, and as it happened a remarkably accurate one  of the Air Forces’ role in  vermany and/or Japan. Largely the work of four exceptional thinkers—Col, Harold (  Kenneth Walker, Maj. Haywood Hansell, and Maj.