kroaches so large Bee attacked one of them with a broom and failed to kill it. Two or three days later they were removed to another house, next door to a senior first lieutenant named George C. Marshall, who welcomed them very hospit- ably and invited them to dinner.* But just as prospects seemed to be brightening, Bee, who was now pregnant, went into the base hospital with painful complications. She eventually miscarried. About the time she became ill, Hap (whom she was now calling “Sunny” in deference to his mother's habit of doing so) was ordered into the field to take part in a major maneuver at Batangas, on the coast of Luzon, sixty miles south of Manila. For about two weeks, therefore, he was unable to be with her and comfort her, or even to find out exactly how well she was progressing.  The maneuver in which he took part turned out to be a significant one. It was to be an “invasion” of Luzon and a march on Manila by a “White Force” of 4,800 troops, which would be resisted by a “Brown  Force” of 3,200 troops. The Whites, recruited from units in northern Luzon, were to travel to Batangas in ships and then storm ashore from a fleet of small boats, Lieutenant Marshall, who had already been an instructor at the Army's Command and General Staff School, was named adjutant to the White Force under an elderly colonel who was nearing retirement age. Before the “invasion” even began, the colonel was judged incapable of managing it. The same day, his chief of staff became ill and had to be removed to a Manila hospital. This left no one with enough information to command the operation except Marshall, a mere lieutenant. But the commanding general's representative with the White Force, a captain named Ewing E. Booth, believed Marshall equal to the task, so he was appointed to take charge of it.*  Arnold, worried about his wife, had difficulty focusing his mind on the maneuver. When he reached Batangas on January 23, 1914, the day after he left her in the Fort McKinley hos