on for him, Hap and Bee invited him to visit them, and in March he agreed, When he arrived they soon found that while he had lost his money, he  HAP  had lost very little of his irascibility or his conviction that only his ways were the right ways.  During his visit, Prohibition came to an end, and Hap took delight in being able legally to mix drinks for his friends, though he still refrained from drinking himself, since he was convinced alcohol would aggravate his ulcers. His father, having quickly settled in as a member of the family, would walk into the living room just as the guests were beginning to feel mellow and say, “Where's my supper?” His custom was to eat at five, and he was not a man who believed in changing his customs. While Hap tried to pacify him, he would look around at the assembled company and say, “Why are you people drinking? You know you're not supposed to drink.” Whereupon he would launch one of his well-practiced lectures on the evils of alcohol.  Inasmuch as Hap and Bee had no intention of disrupting their social life to comply with him, they finally arranged for him to eat in the kitchen at five o'clock with David, who also liked to eat early. David soon decided, however, that he didn’t like to eat that early if he had to eat with his grandfather. Though the boy was only five years old, he was old enough to decide that Grandad was “a nasty old bastard.”  More serious problems between Arnold and his father arose not from the old man’s conduct at home but from his habit of instructing peo- ple he encountered on the base, soldiers and civilians alike. He found it almost impossible to watch men do anything without telling them  how to do it better. This gave rise to some delicate situations because  no one wanted to tell the commanding officer's father to go to hell.  A new base theater was under construction when he arrived and he especially enjoyed visiting the site because it seemed to him the men working on it needed a lot of guidance. One