erwhelming argument in favor of estat force.  From Guam, he flew to Iwo Jima, abou for a look at the scars of battle and the air fi built there. While at Iwo, he picked up an ite him grateful to the marines who had con 1,299 occasions so far since its capture, dis: been unable to get back to Saipan, Tinian, limp into Iwo, thus saving their crews from  Arnold flew from Iwo directly to the F safely in MacArthur's hands after a long, c: sary campaign. MacArthur told him Spaatz command the Strategic Air Force in the fir implication was that the right man would be Arnold found easy to overlook  In Manila, the destruction had been so « buildings were gone and only two good ho: MacArthur occupied one of them, George stayed with Kenney, Among the people whe one-time chief of staff George Stratemeyer, Like Stilwell and othe trouble with Chiang Kai-shek and Claire Ch  er in the Far East  might soon have to do something about C) formidable fighting man, remarkably succes: the Japanese, he sometimes seemed to be Army but Chiang Kai-shek. (On July 6, Cher had placed him under Stratemeyer's comm With Stratemeyer in Manila was his ¢ Stone, who had been one of Arnold’s you 1933. On the veranda of Kenney’s house, A1 said, “Chuck, we now have a very powerful ) it? Stone said, “I know very little about it “Do you think we should drop it?” “No, sir.”  Thomas M Coffey © S10 see ohm here va again he esing pons, which were crowed ih his wing to be unde Concerned about hs, he fli back o Guam for tore conferences with Nit, who gach promise hm that everthing would ove long on schedule, Thus  ease, be few tak io San Fanci (a Enno, johns and,  ad Hava arnving thereon ue 25 bis irda, Bee andl Lois were both cm hand to greet him with bday  eda pln tual freehand’ care fl be  again as it had done so often through the eas. Iwas understandable  thats shuld la  lence. Iva alas easy toe with Hap  and bis Ar Hnces. This tame i vas the preentof the United Sas  Who foreclose istry celebration, Hany Truma