ding the progress of aviation, especially people in the military, He was bitterly convinced that the growth of aviation was being blocked deliberately by battleship advocates and other enemies of air power, These included a lot of  entrenched Army generals, but it was primarily the Navy that he railed  against, the entrenched admirals who were “unable to face the fact that sea power was done for." He had worked out a program to prove to them what the airplane could do. His border patrol and Arnold's forest fire patrol were part of that program. He also planned a transcontinen- tal air race, a flight to Alaska by a large formation of planes, and after that, a mass flight around the world. But above all, he was pursuing a campaign to make the Navy cooperate in a test that would prove  whether or not airplanes could sink battleships. Among the captured  German ships in the Navy's possession was a big, modern super- dreadnaught, the Ostfriesland, Since it would never be used for any other purpose, Mitchell wanted the Navy to offer it, in a controlled exper- iment, as a target for aerial bombs. He flatly promised that, contrary to all naval doctrine, bombs would sink it.  The Navy, unwilling to entertain such a challenge to the omnipo- Adm.  William S, Benson, chief of naval operations, went on record that  tence of its own cherished battleships, was refusing to cooperat  summer with the declaration, “I cannot conceive of any use the fleet will ever have for aircraft."  Later that summer, on August 1, Benson went to far as to promul- gate a secret order which said: “In accordance with the policy of the  103 * HAP  Navy Department of merging aviation activities with those of other naval activities, the Aviation Division of this office will be abolished.” Mitchell  obtained that order before it became public and, using it without referring to it, declared at a September hearing of the U.S. Senate Military Affairs Committee . in this country, our army aviation is shot to pi