arines, and Army had conquered Tinian and Guam as well as Saipan), and eight to ten new Superforts were arriving each day. But Arnold was not yet satisfied with the performance of Haywood Hansell’s 21st Bomber Command because it was sending out an average of only about seventy planes per mission.’ He knew about Hansell’s difficulties. The maintenance depot hadn't yet been built, which meant that a lot of planes were grounded awaiting repairs. And he was convinced that Hansell had done an es ing his units.* But Arnold’s key consideration now was the operation of the force. Curt LeMay was doing an excellent job in China. Though he  ellent job of pioneering, planning, and organiz-  was averaging only four missions a month, it was a mirac le that he could manage more than one or two. And his accomplishments with the Eighth Air Force in Europe had impressed everyone, LeMay, he decided, would be the new commander of the 21st. To announce this change, he sent to Hansell’s Guam headquarters Brig. Gen. Lauris Norstad, another of his former council members, who was now chief of staff of the 20th Air Force  Norstad arrived in Guam on January 7 and broke the news to both Hansell and LeMay, who had been summoned there from China for this mecting.* Norstad made it clear to them, as if they didn’t already know it, that Arnold was absolutely determined to get results out of the B-29. LeMay was to stay in Guam and speed up the operations of the 21st as quickly as possible. Brig. Gen. Roger M. Ramey, Hansell’s chief of staff, was to take over LeMay’s 20th Bomber Command in China, but only for the purpose of phasing it out Now that there were enough bases in the Marianas, it would be pointless to continue hauling gasoline over the  Hump into China  Arnold’s deep concern about the B-29 operations did not abate simply because he had changed commanders. Norstad had _ barely returned to Washington when, on January 14, Arnold wrote him an anxious and impatient memorandum;  I am still worri