.  Finally, Bee protested. “This may be the last time we'll have the  whole family together,” she pointed out, She insisted that he spend the days before Christmas at home  He agreed, and he kept his promise, but he also had a special telephone installed in his den, and there he spent his days and his evenings, so his family still saw very little of him.  Bruce was especially eager to talk to him because he had a story to tell.” Just before their release for Christmas leave, his whole class at Annapolis had been marched into an auditorium to hear and see a presentation by two officers.  “When you leave here,” one of them said, “you'll be wearing Navy  blue for the first time in public, People will ask you, ‘Can an airplane sink  a battleship?’ We're here to tell you an airplane cannot sink a battleship.”  Thereupon they unveiled a large cardboard battleship model with overlays. They ripped off one overlay of “armor” after another and each time there would be another overlay beneath it, until they finally reached the case-hardened steel hull. Perhaps airplanes had sunk some old, obsolete battleships, but no airplane could sink a modern ship like this one.  Bruce, having grown up in the Air Corps, didn't believe their story,  s  was in fact appalled by it, but being acutely aware of his fath arguments with the Navy, couldn't wait to tell him about it. After several days at home, however, he still hadn't had a chance to mention it  Finally he arranged to tell Hank a short version of the story, in a loud voice, right outside the door of his father's study. It was the kind of ploy Arnold couldn't resist. He came bursting out of the room bellow ing, “Who the hell told you all that nonsense?"  After listening to the whole story, he rushed to his telephone and called Adm, John Towers, once a fellow student at the Wright brothers’ flying school, now the chief of naval aviation. But what could Towers do other than laugh? Though he might even agree with Arnold, as a naval avia