ctions.”* He was now in  such a jam he forgot all about the sweat soaking his winter uniform.  31 # HAP  In vain he chased after one cart, then another. Those water buffaloes were faster than he had imagined. Before he could even shout for the police, they had disappeared, in several directions, with his precious cargo. For much of the day he ran up and down Manila streets, wide and narrow, searching desperately for them. Finally, frightened  and desolate, he made his way to the address where he had been told to  deliver the money. How would he explain his dereliction? Those terrible stories about robbers had been right. He had been given sufficient warning. How could he have let them, in spite of that warning, snatch And then to make their getaway on buffalo-drawn carts! There could be no explanation. On his  from him such a colossal amount of money?  first assignment as an Army officer, he had allowed an apparently unarmed gang of nondescript thieves to take away from him millions of dollars in government money. And only now, several hours later, he was arriving to report it. What would the Philippine officials say? What would they do to him?  He was astonished to find, when he walked in and identified himself, that they simply smiled at him. The money? It has been delivered, every box of it, hours earlier. They gave him a receipt for it and thanked him, Gradually, as he stared at the receipt, he realized his good fortune and a sense of relief overcame him. But not for long. With his big problem solved, he became more aware than ever of the humid Philippine heat attacking him through his heavy woolen uniform.  Assigned to the 29th Infantry Division at Fort McKinley, he soon made it clear to friends that he didn’t like the accommodations, With two West Point classmates, Lt. Benjamin Castle and Lt, Wiley Dawson, he moved into a large, two-story bachelor officers’ quarters occupied by no one but themselves.’ They hired a Chinese cook and Filipino houseboy, bought som