ing in celebration, rather than anger. The hour of the cease-fire, 11:00 a.m., had arrived. Arnold has just missed World War I  Thomas M. Coffey * 94  advantage he hadn't counted on—mobility. He was now high enough in the Air Service to go where he pleased as long as he could justify it There was only one place he wanted to go, and finally, in September 1918, he came up with a good enough excuse.  \ year earlier, in the fall of 1917, the Air Service, working with the Sperry Company and Charles F Kettering's Delco Corporation, had invented and successfully tested two pilotless airplanes. Under Ketter- ing’s ingenious direction, these were soon converted into flying bombs, thereafter called “bugs,” which were, in effect, the forerunners of the German World War II buzz bombs. Empty, the bug weighed only 300 pounds, but it could carry a 300-pound bomb load a significant distance across enemy lines. It would be cheap to manufacture and it was easy to launch from a simple track. Though early tests had gone awry, its development was far enough along, in the summer of 1918, to justify telling Pershing about its availability  In September, when Pershing informed Washington that he was interested in the bug, Arnold realized he had just received his ticket to France. Instead of sending someone else, he would go himself and brief the Supreme American Commander about the promising new inven- tion. His third child and second son, William Bruce Arnold, had been born July 17 without complications, and Bee was comfortably situated in their Dupont Circle mansion. Though she did have some difficulties, she was obviously capable of handling them. Little three-year-old Lois, for instance, was a source of concern. She had begun to show aggressive hostility toward her tiny brother, Hank, going so far as to drop a heavy iron engine into his crib one day. Fortunately it had missed him. It was hard to believe she had done it purposely, yet Bee was worried about her and had begun watching her