cized and defied.  Thomas M. Coffey 10  Department and Arnold on one side, Morgenthau and our beleaguered European allies on the other. It was a struggle that had continued through 1939 and was reaching a peak when, on March 5, 1940, Arnold was called to testify at a secret meeting of the House Military Affairs Committee. He was soon to realize that there is no such thing as a secret meeting of congressmen  Arnold told the committe  in confidence, that the Air Corps was paying too much for its airplanes. The cost of 2,100 planes ordered  during the corps’ expansion program, he said, had exceeded original estimates by  $20 million. This was due, he said, not only to a rise in cost of materials, but to the large orders placed with American aircraft companies by the British and French. The American companies, he indicated, were giving preference to the orders of the Allies TERRE they didn’t want to lose their business.  Arnold's secret testimony soon reached the White House, and  President Roosevelt reacted quickly, On the afternoon of March 12, he  summoned to his office the War, Navy, and Treasury secretaries and their assistants, plus the Army and Navy air chiefs, General Arnold and Admiral John Towers.  The president began by addressing himself to the need for coopera-  tion and coordination between all the members of his government in  arranging foreig: = ging foreign sales of aircraft and arms. He then moved on to the  need for caution in answering questions before congressional com- ittees. He wasn't happy  he said, with the way some people had n testifying before Congress—in particular,  be ae some War Department  At this poir us point he looked directly at Arnold. If certain chiefs could not  take care =mselves ¢ of themselves as witnesses before committees, he said, it might  be neces: 4 cessary to send the second or third in command up the hill to  testify  The: z hen, staring coldly at Arnold, he issued a threat that could not be  misunderstood. As for offi