ause he hadn't yet been able to send over enough planes to try it properly.  On the way to Casablanca in a new four-engine Douglas C-54 transport, Arnold, Marshall, and their aides landed at Bathurst in West Africa, where Gen. C. R. Smith and Gen. Tom Hardin of the A-T.C. were waiting to greet them. Smith was in Africa because Arnold had learned, in early December 1942, that the Navy planned to develop an  air transport service, which, in effect, would duplicate the A.T.C.? A day or so later, Arnold met Smith in the Munitions Building corridor and said, “I want to see you.”  They went into Arnold’s office where he said, “We've got to do something about Dakar.” With North Africa under Allied control, the West African port of Dakar assumed great importance as a landing place for transatlantic cargo and passenger planes. “I understand there's four hundred thousand tons of shipping in the harbor and they've got a railroad and an airport. You'd better go over there and take them over.”  “Suits me,” Smith said.  “I won't give you a letter, :  ve me a letter.” Arnold said.  30 over there, see what's wrong, and take care of it.”  Knowing Arnold, Smith went immediately to Dakar and made arrangements with the French governor general to assume control of the harbor, the railroad, and the airport, which he then undertook to enlarge. He hadn't been there long when he became aware of the real reason Arnold had sent him, An American admiral arrived one day with a representative of the State Department, apparently intent on doing for the Navy what Smith had already done for the Air Force:  Smith had gone to bed early that night and was asleep when the State Department man came and told him that the admiral wanted to see him. The first thing the admiral said was, “I understand you've made a lot of engagements over here. Can I see the letter that authorizes  quite  you? No, you can’t because there isn’t any letter. I have my  Smith said verbal instructions from General Arnold and I d