Sir Archibald Wavell, who When Wavell showed him his  1 commander in India, G old “brilliant but worn out. ig the Japanese out of western Burma, Arnold observed lack of tact that it was not a plan at all “but merely several written paragraphs telling why the mission could not be  "%  sd Dinjan on February 4, planning to spend the night and at an A.T.C. base there, but when he heard that Stilwell iken off for K'un-ming, he said, “If Stilwell can go over the t, so can we.” He promptly ordered Peterson, his pilot, to ations building for briefing.®  d been very few flights over the Hump at night, but land his pilot were traveling with them, and Bissell’s pilot  vas familiar with the 525-mile two-and-a-half-hour route, yortant because they would be flying over some very high d, at intervals, ground held by the Japanese. took off and climbed through rough air to eighteen . The first indication he might have trouble was when the o had never before flown above ten thousand feet, turned ck of oxygen and couldn't function. About the same time, zed that Bissell’s pilot didn't know much more about the ie did. At the midway point, there was supposed to be a couldn't find it. The radio operator tried to get the ation but couldn't raise it, He could get other Chinese  Japanese stations, but not K’un-ming. As he later + was a fifty-mile-per-hour tail wind that night. After two r their  ours, by which time they should have been ni rey still couldn’t see it. In fact, they were beyond it.  went to the rear and told Arnold they were lost. Though ‘d no emotion at this news, he later confided his fears to his is always the possibility of Jap planes being abroad. hey . . If we turn back into the wind do we run out of  : radar. yuntains? Do we jump? If so, when? . .. What should we we have to jump? What will the people back home think if Army Air Forces, and the  the Commanding General, U.S General, Tenth Air Force [Bissell] and the others with us  ken prisoners? What are the best shoes to