y much senior in rank, was also the designated officer in charge of any emergency measures that might be necessary in case of a Los Angeles area disaster. But this evening Hilton was not in when Arnold called. He was on a trip, but no one at Fort MacArthur could say exactly where he had gone or when he would return. Arnold decided to take independent action. It was not a difficult decision for him to make Time after time during his career he had ignored Army regulations and acted on his own initiative. Time after time he had also been disciplined for it, but the Army hadn't yet broken him of the habit.  Unable to reach Colonel Hilton at Fort MacArthur, he put in a call for one of his pilots, Capt. Ira Eaker, who was on detached duty in Los Angeles,”” improving his military prospects by studying for a degree at the University of Southern California. When Arnold called he was in his apartment near the campus, about twenty miles from Long Beach.  “Can you get away right now,” Arnold asked, “and go down to Long Beach?”  The “right now” was superfluous, as Eaker was well aware. Whenev- er Arnold wanted anything done, he wanted it done “right now.” Eaker assured him he could go immediately ‘alk to the mayor and chief of police, we can do to help.”  Despite traffic congestion caused by the northward flow of refugees from the continuing quakes, Eaker was in Long Beach within the hour, making his way to City Hall through the milling crowds of homeless,  Arnold said. “Find out what  Thomas M. Coffey 6  “Well, Hap,” she reminded him, “they told you to do that once.”  “I know it.”  “I don’t think you did anything wrong,” she said, after they had talked awhile,  ‘and you're not going to leave the service with a chip on your shoulder. I think you should ask for a court-martial.”  As he listened to her, his mood brightened. Finally he said, “I was hoping you'd say all that. I wanted to hear you say it.”  When he returned to Patrick's office the next day and announced he had chosen