n April 7, and was  followed within the next ten days by several other planes.'? But toward the end of April, five of the newly arrived bombers crashed near Karachi on the Arabian Sea, owing to overheated engines. Two planes were demolished and five men were killed. K. B. Wolfe, who was on the scene, grounded all the surviving planes and told Arnold in an urgent message that some method would have to be found to cool the engines. Arnold had managed by force of will to get at least a few B-29s to  Asia in time to keep his promise to President Roosevelt. But he hadn't  yet solved the plane's crucial engine problem. It would be a heavy  burden for him to carry in the days ahead.  Finally, after ten days in May, the burden became too heavy and Arnold fell victim to his third heart attack in fourteen months." This one was not so severe as the first but it was serious enough to worry Dr. Russell Lee. When Arnold had sufficiently recovered, Lee again pre- scribed Florida and went with him to Coral Gables. This time Bee also went with him, but she was little comfort. Though she was still working, perhaps too hard, on Air Forces relief projects, she was not well. She had become acutely nervous. She wasn’t eating enough and had lost weight In addition to worrying about his own health, Arnold now worried about hers. And Dr. Lee was not as helpful as he would have liked to be about this problem because he and Bee didn’t get along very well. She  Thomas M. Coffey * 342  The prospects were not good, The B-29 Wright engine was still undergoing so many modifications that it was considered still in the development stage. As of early February, the entire 20th Bomber Command had flown a mere 9,000 hours in training, testing, and so  forth, and “only a negligible number of these hours had been flown over  20,000 feet, due to power plant limitations.”"* (The B-29 was supposed to be a high-altitude bomber.) And the fire-control system had not yet been fully tested in operation. As of Mar