egies were so brilliant that, by war's end, even the  French and British acknowledged him as the greatest of air generals. It  99 » HAP  was he, more than any other man, who had opened the eyes of the world to the powers of the airplane.  “The air offensive which Mitchell laid on in the Meuse-Argonne in September [1918]” Arnold believed,  was the greatest thing of its kind seen in the war, although the Germans had done it on a smaller scale. Billy himself had tried it on about one-fifteenth of the scale in the July fighting on the Marne But the air attack that he launched as part of the American advance in the Meuse-Argonne between September 12th and 16th, 1918, was the first massed air striking power ever seen, Until then, the air fighting had been chiefly between individual pilots. With his mind full of what stronger, more coordinated numbers might have accomplished around Chateau-Thierry in July—with the successful bombing of the enemy supply center at Fere-en-Tardenois as an encouragement—he sold Pershing and the Allied High Command on the idea, and early in August began assembling a force of 1,500 combat planes—American, French, British, Italian, Belgian, Portuguese—every kind he could get his hands on. When the American ground forces—400,000 strong—struck, Mitchell struck ahead of them through the air."  Mitchell's success during the war was so impressive that when Arnold went to France in 1918 and listened to him expound his ideas, “I realized ... the Air Service needed Billy back home, fast, and with every argument I could muster I tried to convince him of this fact.”*  Though reluctant to relinquish the adulation Europeans were heaping upon him, Mitchell eventually returned home on February 17, 1919, expecting to be named chief of the Air Service. But meanwhile, in December 1918, the General Staff had presented that post to another ground soldier, Maj. Gen. C. T. Menoher of the Infantry, and he intended to keep it, leaving Mitchell with a very subordinate r