l press  release necessary as interest extends great distance  Stimson, Marshall, and Arnold sat down immediately to discuss the possible use of the astonishing new weapon against Japan. It has been suggested that because Arnold believed his Air Forces could defeat Japan without the bomb, he therefore opposed the use of it. The evidence disproves this. As he himself described the meeting with Stimson and Marshall, it was not a debate over whether the bomb should be used; the questions were when and where, Arnold pointed out that Spaatz had planes and carefully trained crews in the Pacific, awaiting the arrival of the bomb, and suggested that the question of the targets should be turned over to him  The next day at Potsdam passed quietly, with nothing substantial happening as yet Arnold and Marshall were chatting together when Arnold suggested that with the war coming to an end, both of them should consider retirement. Neither of them could continue to work as they had for the last four years, he said, “with our necks up in the collars.” Arnold was as concerned about Marshall's health as Marshall was about his. Marshall said he agreed, but Arnold didn't believe him. He offered to bet five dollars that Marshall would still be on the job six months after Japan surrendered, and Marshall took the bet.  The same afternoon, Arnold ran into Dwight Eisenhower, who would almost certainly become Army chief of staff when Marshall did retire, and asked him whom he would like to have as Arnold's successor Air Forces. Ike needed no time for discussion. He wanted Spaatz,  in the and Arnold agreed with him The Potsdam Conference, attended by Truman, Stalin, and  Churchill, with Clement Attlee replacing Churchill as British prime  Thomas M. Coffey 372  minister while the meetings were in progress, settled certain important questions about postwar Europe. But the talks were conducted in a strange, tentative atmosphere, not only because of the change of power in England, but also becau