pon Japan. With high-explosive bombs alone, the 20th Air Force had levelled  9 33  )00 homes in Japan, and most of the business and industry in sixty of its cities. These conventional bombings had killed at least 240,000 people and wounded more than 300,000, The nation lay in ruins even  before the ultimate bomb fell on Hiroshima. On the ninth, since there  was no word from Tokyo, another atomic bomb fell—this one at Nagasaki, but still there was no surrender. On the eleventh, Arnold sent an order instructing Spaatz to drop leaflets over what was left of Japan's bombed-out and burned-out cities, telling the people what was happen ing and urging them to come to terms.  Finally, on August 15, official word arrived. The Japanese govern-  ment of Prime Minister Kantaro Suzuki had accepted the unconditional  tsdam Conference  surrender terms agreed upon at the F The Arnolds had fi  arrived.*” That afternoon they had entertained British Air Marshal  ished their evening meal when the news  Arthur Harris at a small reception, and a few of the guests were still there, including Hank and his wife, Kaye. There was no loud outcry  when the news became official, perhaps because, for several hours,  everyone in the house had known it was coming. Within a few minutes, however, old friends began dropping in and soon the house was crowded. Hank took over the bartending duties while his father shook  hands with each new arrival  * HAP  After a while, George Marshall, who lived only a few doors down mimanded atten-  the street, walked in quietly. As usual, his presence ¢ tion and he thanked the officers in the room for their help in the war effort. Then he and Arnold shook hands and congratulated each other  That was all  Thomas M. Coffey 374  air strength to the Pacific. But on the fifth, this effort began to appear superfluous. Aware of what was scheduled that day (it was August 6 in the Far East), Arnold waited at home, hoping to get the first news of iton the private White House w