ccuracy of a mar ksman firing a rifle at a bull’s-eye.  We moved in on a city of 50,000 people and destroyed the part of it that contributes to the enemy's ability to wage war against us, When that part of it was a heap of twisted girders, smoking ruin and pulverized machinery, we handed it back, completely useless, to the  Germans. Ball-bearings cannot now pour from this ruin, and no moving machinery will operate without ball bearings.  It was a much more glowing description of the second Schweinfurt raid than the facts warranted. Though the ball-bearing plants had been badly damaged, they had not been rendered “completely useless.” And the Eighth Air Force was now in critical condition, On the fifteenth, Eaker again asked for long-range fighters—P-38s and Mustangs, On the twenty-ninth, Arnold informed him that all the P-38s and P-51s intend- ed for Africa and the Pacific were being diverted to England. Unul they arrived, the Eighth Air Force would not be able to resume its offensive  against Germany.  On November 11, Arnold, along with Gens. Laurence Kuter, Haywood Hansell, and Rosie O'Donnell, joined Marshall, King, and their staffs, plus President Roosevelt and his staff, for a trip on the battleship Jowa to Cairo, where they were to confer once more with Churchill and his staff.’ Chiang Kai-shek would also be there, to represent China. After these three powers finished their deliberations, everyone would move on to Tehran for a four-power conference with Russia's dictator, Joseph Stalin, whom the American press now referred to as the “president” of Russia since he had become an ally  On the afternoon of the third day at sea, while the naval convoy was staging an antiaircraft display for the benefit of the president and the other dignitaries aboard, the Towa, America’s newest and largest battle- ship, suddenly received from an escorting destroyer a very real torpedo alarm  “The whole character of the maneuver changed instantly,” Arnold noticed. “We began to zigz