here, and  accepted by everyone as a little brother  Thomas M. Coffey * 104  By the summer of 1920, Arnold had fitted himself smoothly into the Army organization in San Francisco. He had an enviable command, which offered opportunities for initiative within the confines of its  limited budget. He got along well with General Liggett, a friend for  several years, who had commanded the First Army in France, and was “very friendly toward aviation.” He again had Maj. Carl “Tooey” Spaatz with him as his executive officer, which meant he didn’t have to worry much about administrative work, which he hated. That left him plenty of time to fly from base to base, up and down the coast, inspecting his fire patrol and border patrol pilots. He also had more time for his growing family, because he no longer had to commute to Berkeley. At the beginning of the year he had been able to move his office into the crowded Presidio and secure family quarters there—“small quarters but very nice," as Bee described them. She was happy to be living within the city, on one of the Army's most beautiful facilities, and the social life was pleasantly active. The children were healthy and Arnold, as a colonel, was even making enough money to support them without scrimping,. His income during 1919, including flight pay, had to come to $8,980, a handsome sum in those days.  He had reason to be a happy man, but he was not. Besides being deeply dissatisfied with the condition of the Air Service, to which he was now completely dedicated, he was concerned about himself. Since his crash in San Diego the previous year, he had suffered recurring stomach pains, which he thought were the result of the internal injuries he had sustained. And as if this was not providing him with enough discomfort, he learned that on June 30, he would revert from his wartime rank as a colonel to his permanent rank of captain, with a commensurate drop in salary. He also learned that Major Spaatz, by law, could not be dropped to