l yea a iu Dh ete an od  ‘eluagvl esd lata idm i iri soln Sonnanstine ily ds msl i: ch “pions Rit  tian  tunnel in woli  end oan iad lukas ike anh, lela enon wal el lod  dpb i bh  iT bl  evap nga pa lute ie a0!  sini  fai ‘pod oa  wor  Abani a the  ledge pint bi ib Kev  vada anche cba Jinn ie ea indie dy dices  sd aloe  sunt Tec ee tea Te beni int  co venbact ten  {aul  heat vg ea tall  vill vit ano tan  375 « HAP  ile, George Marshall, who lived only a few doors down ed in quietly. As usual, his presence commanded atten- nked the officers in the room for their help in the war and Arnold shook hands and congratulated each other  Thomas M. Coffey 374  air strength to the Pacific. But on the fifth, this effort began to appear superfluous. Aware of what was scheduled that day (it was August 6 in the Far East), Arnold waited at home, hoping to get the first news of iton the private White House wire that had been installed in his quarters. He assumed that even though President Truman was still in mid-Adantic on the cruiser Augusta, en route home from Potsdam, the White House would get the news before it became public, or even before it was  transmitted by Spaatz’s headquarters. It was early evening when the  cable came  ually with one tenth [cloud] cover at 0523154 ) fighter opposi ola C  successfu  Hiroshima bombed August 5, 7:15 p.m. in Washington]. There was 1  tion and no flak. Parsons [weaponer aboard the £ 2y] reports  15 minutes after bomb as follows: “Results clear-c in all  respects. Visible effects greater than in any test. Condition normal in  airplane following delivery  The days passed thereafter with everyone in Washington wondering why Japan refused to surrender. The devastation at Hiroshima was only a small part of the destruction Arnold's B-29s had visited upon Japan. With high-explosive bombs alone, the 20th Air Force had levelled  9 33  )00 homes in Japan, and most of the business and industry in sixty of its cities. These conventional bombings had kil