sure that you did not allow that friendship to influence you unduly toward me officially I shall always accept gladly and in the proper spirit, any advice, council or criticism from you, I do not feel, however, that my past service which has come under your observation indicates that | am a horse which needs to be ridden with spurs  A week later, on July 7, Arnold wrote Eaker a letter that he must have hoped would clear the air between them:  1 want you to get this firmly in your mind that had I not had confidence in you—confidence in your ability, 1 would never have built you up for the job that you now have. I give you full credit for having the inherent ability—the knowledge and judgement that goes with the command that you now hold, That being the case, I see no reason in the world for any fears or suspicion as to our relationship entering your mind. But you must know me well enough by this time to know that I am very outspoken. I say what 1 think and do what I think best, so when you hear these rumors, comments, criticisms or what-have-you, always remember that if there is anything serious you will be the first one to hear of it and it will come from me direct  w  1  a3  HAP  Thomas M. Coffey * 316  | am willing to do anything possible to build up your forces but you must play your part. My wire was sent to you to get you to toughen up—to can these fellows who cannot produce—to put in youngsters who can carry the ball You have to be tough to handle the situation  On June 28 Arnold sent Eaker another cable blaming him for being so slow to fire his fighter commander. The next day, Eaker exploded in a five-page letter to his old friend. He hadn't relieved his bomber and fighter commanders earlier, he said, because he didn't have proper replacements. Now he had found the men he wanted. Brig Gen. Fred L. Anderson would be the new bomber commander and Maj. Gen. William Kepner would be the fighter commander. For air service commander, he would be glad to have Hugh Kne