ng gone off on his daily round of house calls, when the envelope arrived from the War Department. Though he had been eagerly awaiting it, he was now, suddenly, too much a man of the world to be anything but casual about it. As he later recalled, he “tossed it to her gaily without looking at it, Does a World Champion Rider, after all,  carefully inspect the inscription on his trophy when they hand it to  him  Since he already knew what was in the envelope, he paid scant attention as his mother opened it, extracted the letter, and began to read. When she raised her eyes from the page, she looked straight at her son  “You'd better read this, Harley,” she said.  He took it from her and, still without any sense of alarm, ran his eye down the page until he came to the words: “Henry H. Arnold, 2nd Lieutenant of Infantry.”  His glamorous equestrian world suddenly collapsed The Cavalry- striped trousers, the prancing horses, the Kiplingesque charges against savage Indians, began to fade from his mind’s eye and dissolve into the distance. Was it the tobacco in his cheek the day of the graduation riding exhibition that had cost him his coveted and presumably well-earned Cavalry assignment? He would never find out. But there is little reason to assume he was passed over because of such a minor infraction when the Cavalry had so many important reasons to reject him. He had not been a distinguished cadet. An academic rating in the sixties out of a class of 110 was hardly an indication of brilliance. His selection as a member of the graduation riding team was a trifling honor when balanced against the glaring fact that he had failed ever to become a cadet officer. His only claim to leadership was his dubious distinction as an organizer of the infamous Black Hand and its frequent mischief. His popularity with other cadets was a mark in his favor but not a sign of unusual ability. On the basis of his military record to date, the Army could hardly regard him as a promising officer wi