im. That ended the interview.”*  Shortly after his return, Arnold summoned to Washington from Wright Field the men who designed and proc ured lifeboats and other emergency equipment for heavy bombers After assembling this team in his office, he had them inflate one of their four-man boats in front of his desk. Then he chose eight of them and said, “Climb in.”  “But it's only a four-man boat,” one of them said  “t don't care if it’s a four-man boat or what it is. Climb in.”  Needless to say, they didn’t fit. But that was not enough. He instructed them to get bathing suits and try it in the Potomac, climbing  into the raft from the water, the way downed airmen would have to do it  at sea. “When you get through,” he said, “I want to talk to you some  more.  By the following day, they fully understood the problem of an eight-man crew trying to get into a four-man lifeboat. As a result, the B-17s and B-24s were soon carrying two five-man boats plus a four-man boat, so that even if one boat was bullet-riddled, there would be two left.”  On November 8, 1942, the North African invasion began, but Arnold still had mixed feelings about it. The Eighth Air Force, after a  Thomas M. Coffey 290  Saunders gave him a tour of the base in a jeep but didn’t suggest he stay overnight because there was no mess hall.** Of the thirty-six planes with which the group had left Hawaii in late July, twelve had been lost but the other twenty-four were still flying missions. Six were out on patrol this afternoon. Before Arnold left, they returned with the news that they had sunk two Japanese transports. Arnold was so impressed he decided to recommend Saunders for his first star. “Saunders deserves much credit,” he wrote in his diary, “for looking after his men and at the same time carrying on such successful operations.” There was one other heartening thing about Saunders. Unlike some of the generals and admirals to whom Arnold had spoken, this flying colonel had no doubt that the Japanese would