But David Arnold, who got to know him well during the Fort Myer years, found him a very warm and thoughtful man, Bee considered him one of Hap's closest friends, It has been noted that even President Roosevelt addressed him as “General Marshall.” When Marshall and Arnold were at work together, they addressed each other formally, as General Kuter has observed, But when they were alone together, or in social situations, they called each  other Hap and George.  In addition to his strictly military duties, Arnold somehow found time for a lot of peripheral matters, even during the early months of the war. He corresponded with Irving Berlin about the possibility of Berlin's composing 4 new Air Forces anthem, With Ira Baker, he completed editing a book entitled Army Fier, which they had written together to stimulate enlistments. (It was published in May 1942.)  From President Roosevelt on March 7 he received a private, hand: written “Dear Hap” letter that he could hardly ignore: “I am a bit con-  cerned because Elliott has a rather bad chronic case of haemoroids  Thomas M. Coffey 268  c| that need to be operated on. He rightly insists on going through with his new assignment but when he gets back, | hope you can give him enough time off in Texas to have them taken out.”  One day Arnold got a call from Clark Gable asking for an appoint- ment. He had met Gable during the filming of Mutmy on the Bounty and they had become good friends. But when Gable arrived for his appoint- ment, he was accompained by an MGM press agent who did most of the talking  “We'd like to have Mr. Gable serve in the Air Forces,” the press agent said  Arnold said, “Great. He can do a job for us.”  The press agent, perhaps remembering the enlistment of Elliott Roosevelt as a captain, said, “We'd like him to go in as a captain.”  Arnold said politely, “I don’t think that’s the route to go.”  The press agent tried to persuade him. Arnold became angry. Finally he turned to the silent Gable and, perhaps for