ig Gen. Fred L. Anderson would be the new bomber commander and Maj. Gen. William Kepner would be the fighter commander. For air service commander, he would be glad to have Hugh Knerr. (It proved to be an excellent choice. Knerr did the job so well he was a major general by the end of the war. But unfortunately, his estrangement from Arnold, who had recommended him, was never resolved.)  Having got the business end of his letter out of the way, Eaker turned to his personal relations with Arnold:  I have always felt the closest bond of friendship between us as two individuals. I have never thought that you placed quite the confi- dence in me officially as an officer, as you did as a friend, I sometimes thought that you were tough on me officially in order to make certain that nobody had a feeling that I got the positions I held through our personal friendship, and to make doubly sure that you did not allow that friendship to influence you unduly toward me officially I shall always accept gladly and in the proper spirit, any advice, council or criticism from you, I do not feel, however, that my past service which has come under your observation indicates that | am a horse which needs to be ridden with spurs  A week later, on July 7, Arnold wrote Eaker a letter that he must have hoped would clear the air between them:  I want you to get this firmly in your mind that had I not had confidence in you—confidence in your ability, 1 would never have built you up for the job that you now have. | give you full credit for having the inherent ability—the knowledge and judgement that goes with the command that you now hold, That being the case, I see no reason in the world for any fears or suspicion as to our relationship entering your mind. But you must know me well enough by this time to know that I am very outspoken. I say what I think and do what I think best, so when you hear these rumors, comments, criticisms or what-have-you, always remember that if there is anything seriou