nvolved in aircraft production. From late 1917 onward he made several inspection trips to Detroit and other auto centers that were supposedly becoming aircraft centers. With each trip his impatience grew. Automotive engineers and executives, despite all  Thomas M. Coffey * 92  Finally, on July 4, 1917, Secretary of War Baker, ignoring the General Staff, took the matter into his own hands and submitted the bill to Congress, which passed it in twelve days, still without the approval of the General Staff.  From that day forward, Arnold was intricately involved in all the steps necessary to convert this money into an effective air force—the development and procurement of qualified aircraft; the construction of schools, fields, and other facilities; and the recruitment and training of personnel. It was an experience he would find immensely valuable two decades later, but at the time he was not successful, Because of , limited priorities, competition  continuing shortages, lack of preced: with other elements of the war effort, ignorance about aircraft in the auto industry, which undertook to build most of the planes, and other factors, political and military, the American Army air arm never did become an effective fighting force during the First World War. And this was unfortunate because in the climactic months of the war, the Allied armies badly needed air support. Toward the end of 1917 and in early 1918, the military collapse of Russia allowed Germany to transfer hundreds of thousands of troops from the eastern to the western front for what the Kaiser envisaged as his final, victorious push. His armies were now so strong in the west that he had good reason to be confident. On March 22, 1918, he began the Somme River offensive, which very nearly split the French and British forces.  When German troops reached the Somme (on the twenty-third) they were able to bombard Paris, only seventy-five miles away, with their gigantic “Big Bertha” gun. On April 9, when the Somme of