o wll al ig lie nt  Aik lad jen i aly  so alee it wll  in anil iene  Anaya ini oun ld ce altar  ql eran stb sat ond  in ili bi  atl le ivi Twohilt in? atin, svc ap  a ant  ult be ria conto hui lens Geto ais ita nat hn ihe ae ill nda! Ao, tt cou le tie  alle  canoe ain  inde 1 edge Ta a  Ot, vy dl tdi  fy Ud al eae af ita a  epi nD  Mui fggu lanl tel ot wl lt  oud 8 ei i i ll Pb arnt  alg  totalbl  1943 began, Hap Arnold was coming to the realization roblems with the British were more complicated than he partly because the British themselves were more compli- imagined. He had watched in astonishment as Prime chill, by diplomatic sleight of hand, turned the Bolero : continent into the Torch invasion of North Africa. And th African campaign was progressing so steadily that Churchill had scheduled a two-power conference, to y January 14, at the sunny French Moroccan port of  nold left Washington for this conference on January 9, f the American contingent, he didn’t know what surprises tht be planning. Had he been privy to some of the ns between Churchill and his top military men in recent ght have been better prepared for what was to take place  tober 22, 1942, “Note on Air Policy,” Churchill had  st pressure must be put upon the United States authorities in America to utilize their Fortresses and Liberators in  of our sea communications during Torch At present d States are perservering with the idea of the daylight of Germany . . . without escort. So far they had not gone  1¢ limits of strong British fighter escort. They will probably e a heavy disaster as soon as they do. We must try to them to divert these energies (a) to sea work, beginning  ing Torch, . . . and (b) to night work We should urge build Lancasters [the best of the British four-engine for us We should urge the development of the  with the right engines. It would be much betier if they induced to build 70,000 aircraft of the right kind in 1943 indred thousand of those they are now projecting.  st Secret”