eet Bee and the children, who had just arrived from San Diego. She was feeling somewhat better now—much better when she learned that her husband was to be stationed in Washington rather than Panama or on the western front. She went to Washington a few days later and rented a large, fully furnished house near Dupont Circle, with servants’ quarters, a library, butler's pantry, and nine bedrooms.* For a man w ho was at that moment a month—but it was worth  making $340 a month, it was expensive—$65 it  In June the Army put him on permanent duty in Washington and, as if in answer to his concern about paying $65 a month for that mansion, raised his salary by making him a temporary major. Then on August 5, he became a temporary full colonel, the youngest full colonel in the Army at that time. When he and Bee looked at those eagles on his shoulders, they seemed unreal. Thirty-one-year-olds just didn’t become colonels in those days. At first, he later recalled, he used to take back streets to his office, “imagining that people would be looking at me incredulously.”  Again he asked for a transfer to France. The Army’s answer to that came August 15 and explained why those eagles had been pinned on his shoulders. With Brig, Gen, Billy Mitchell already in Europe, and Brig. Gen. (Temporary) Benjamin Foulois, Mitchell's rival star in the Aviation Section, on his way to Europe, there were very few experienced air officers to run the shop in Washington. Arnold was therefore relieved of his duties as information officer and named executive officer of the entire Signal Corps Air Division  At the time the United States entered the war, the total strength of the Air Division was 52 officers and 1100 men, plus 200 civilian  91 « HAP  mechanics. Of the 5!  planes on hand, Arnold considered 51 obsolete and 4 obsolescent.** None were combat planes. None had usable machine guns mounted on them, The United States didn’t own a single bomber, nor did it own a bombsight, although, as we have see