even miles northeast of Washington. The Signal Corps was then in the process of taking over the thousand-acre site, a civilian “airfield”  which adjoined the Baltimore & Ohio Railway yards on one side and a fish hatchery on another. The airplanes were to be housed in four wooden hangars which had already been built, while the fifteen enlisted men recently detailed to the Aviation Service were to live in tents. The officers were to find quarters for themselves in Washington, where they would perform administrative duties at Signal Corps headquarters when they were not flying. Arnold moved into an apartment house called the Toronto at 20th and P streets  Two Signal Corps officers, Capt. Charles DeForest Chandler, the designated commander of the school, and Lt. Roy Kirtland, his adjutant, were to be Arnold’s and Milling’s first students, Captain Chandler, whose only previous air experience was in balloons, had also been  49 HAP  appointed chief of the Aviation Service. For two weeks, until the first plane arrived by freight train, there was little to do at College Park. When it did arrive, Arnold and Milling flipped a coin to decide who would be the first to fly it. Arnold won the toss, and after he proved in an uneventful flight that the plane was airworthy, he began instructing C miles per hour. A few days later the second plane arrived and Milling gave Kirtland his first lessons. Since both students were quick learners, the Army soon had four certified pilots, Toward the end of July, Capt. Paul Beck, who had been learning to fly a Curtiss plane at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio, brought it to College Park, increasing the number of fliers to five.  andler, on mornings and afternoons when the wind stayed below five  By that time, the liveliest question at College Park was: What are we doing here? Though they had been told to fly, and to teach flying, they hadn't been told why. No one in the Army had explained their mission to them, perhaps because almost no one in th