e dangers of flying such an unstable machine. It was not that he optimistic. He, too, expected to be killed, but he seemed able usually to talk himself into a state of calm when faced with danger. Speaking of himself and other pilots in those early days, he once said, “Everybody xpected to be killed, That's absolutely true. Good Lord, I don’t know of anybody who didn't figure he'd be killed before he got through, and I still don’t see how in the devil I wasn't, when I look back and see how close I came to being killed, so many times. But the reason you don't is, to begin with, you know how to fly. That's what Orville Wright always said. The second thing is, you don’t panic. This thing about reliving your life, all that goof you hear—I don’t think I've ever been cooler in my life than when I knew, by the Jesus God, there it is, I'm through. Well, if 'd panicked, 1 would have been through, but I said to myself, ‘not till I see the last of it.’ ”**  Between October 28 and November 3, Arnold and Milling had  more  to delay their Fort Riley experiment because of bad weather. On November 2, Arnold and a wireless operator made a thirty-three-minute flight to Ogden, six miles northeast of the post, but this flight was ter- minated because “the cold was intense” in their completely open and unprotected cockpit. On the third, Milling made two short flights despite a twenty-five-mile-per-hour wind, but both were aborted due to engine troubles. On the fourth, Arnold and Milling each made successful flights, Arnold sending radio signals and Milling, in another experiment, send- ing smoke signals back to earth.  Thomas M. Coffey * 60  sent them to Fort Riley, Kansas, for extensive reconnaissance maneu- vers, which would soon bring Arnold to the most grievous and disrup- tive crisis he had yet been forced to face.  Ever since the invention of cannon shortly after the discovery of gunpowder in the fourteenth century, artillery commanders through- out the world had been plagued by t