new European fighter plz  tes, it was sll the best plane the United States had Pattersor  at first defended the Morgenthau policy. By giving this equipr  ent to the British, he said, the United States was helping them overcome the Germans, so that we might avoid the necessity of having to make use of the materiel later ourselves  That brought Arnold to an overriding concern that had been  occupying his mind since the fall of France. He no longer had much  confidence that the British could hold out against the Germans. As a  military man, he was perhaps less impressed than most civilians by  Winston Churchill's famous fight rhetoric. A nation couldn't fight with  words alone, and the British had very little else, He apparently shared a  growing belief that a German invasion of England could come at any  moment. It wa s NiO! ES t I  was his opinion, he said, that any planes being built for delivery to England six months into the future would get there too late that the whole ¢  isis in Europe would “probably be over in a period of a  month”; and that the U.S, Army should now concentrate on building its  Air Corps because if too many planes were given to the British, those planes would “be used  inst us if the Germans lick the British.”  The possibility of Hitler's conquering England was not pleasant to conter .  plate, but in the summer of 1940 it w  a possibility ut_mili-  tary planners had to take seriously. Stimson made Arnold no promises  vat day, but he did have a better picture of the cold military realities  he faced 1 he seemed to realize  : mmediately that a system in which secretary of th : t  lich the secretary of the treasury dictated to the War Department was intolerable  Soon thereafter Morgenthau learned he was de aling with someone  quite different from Woodring, and Arnold's problems with Morgen gen-  219 HAP  thau, as well as his procurement problems in general, began gradually to diminish.  At a September 27 White House conference, to which Arnold w