er of the modern American Air Force, he had taken charge of the then Army Air Cor ps in 1938, when it was a puny collection of twenty thousand men and a few hundred less-than-battleworthy planes. By 1944, under the whip of his compel- ling, relentless, and often unreasonable dynamism, it had grown into an organization of 2.4 million men and eighty thousand aircraft. Never before or since has a military machine of such size and technical com- plexity been created in so short a period, At the height of World War IL, Arnold commanded the largest, mightiest air force the world had ever seen and perhaps will ever see. When his B-29s dropped the atomic bombs on Japan in 1945, the U.S. Air Force dominated the entire world  In the process of building this gigantic and unprecedented air fleet, Arnold had spent several billions of American taxpayers’ dollars. But when he died in 1950, his entire personal estate amounted to only two $10,000 insurance policies and his “ranch,” for which he had paid  $7,500. His widow had the right to a federal pension of $75 per month.’  3 » HAP  People who knew “Hap” Arnold weren't surprised that he died virtually broke, Money had never attracted him. Airplanes were his obsession. The Wright brothers had taught him to fly in 1911, and he was the holder of U.S. Army Pilot’s License Number Two. He spent more than half his life fighting for the development of air power and air transportation, But on many occasions throughout his active years, it seemed unlikely that he would even complete a full Air Corps career, let alone play such a pivotal role in the development of air power and air Arnold was an incurable maverick who never hesitated to act  transport. on his own initiative or take positions that infuriated his superiors, Time  after time he found himself in deep trouble  January 1917—The Signal Corps Aviation School at Rockwell Field, North Island, San Diego. Captain Arnold was the school’s supply officer when, on January 10, two men, Lt, C