ment the Philppines, abou as far avay from airplanes ashe could get, On Jaly 14, 1915, his request for wane "Yo a negiment seri in the Philippine Departmen was turned down because there was no vacancy atthe moment® The rejection suggested, however, tat his plea night be reconsidered if a vacancy did arise. Meanwhile the Air Service assigned him to attend hearings at Hammondsport, New York (the birthplace of Cenn Cuts) on the qusion of whether an airplane invented by Sue Pierpont Lng ofthe Smithsonian Institution in 1408, at government expense, had actually goten into the ait, (The consensus wa that it had ae and thatthe Wright brothers were the fs ever to yin 194, however, te Langley plane, with ager ince the Pol family summer home  engine, would manage 10 take of cn Lake Ontario was nar Hammondspot, Arnolds assignment 0 this bearing was so convenient for hi it may to have come about by  accident, Though he never ed administrate work, he had learned  § = HAP  n more cautious, that is all. Some other  cir nerves, and they become practically  ficer loses his nerve he is worthless as an her redundantly.  tor he will kill himself. He will probably : with him.”  1 in the presence of fellow officers who elf though he didn’t directly say so. The 2 subject was a measure of his sensitivity nony that day, said nothing about the years later, when Arnold was writing his about his 1912 decision to quit flying.  *r to a question from the chairman,” he sion, “I verified that I was about to be at my own request. Eleanor Pool and I ember; and in those days, you didn’t plan vere married—unless you were an opU- sting there that he told the committee his it fying. Actually he said no such thing at ed by many people who knew otherwise. that it was much less painful to him, and suggest that he had renounced flying not t because of his love for her. And once he sr mind, he was stuck with it for the rest of  with his son's engagement to Sidney Pool's felt he had arranged it), and as near a