ficer for the Field Officers’ Musketry School at McKinley, and also as range officer during machine-gun practice at Camp Stotsen-  burg, across the Pampanga River near Angeles. He liked the quarter-  master job because it kept him busy, “but not that chow job.” (The mess job is one that almost no officer wants.) Once again, however, Arnold demonstrated his surprising adaptability by performing both jobs so well as to earn a glowing commendation from his commanding officer.” He was often away from Bee during this time, but not for long periods. Whether he was with her or away from her, he worried more than she did about her condition  Now sweetheart,” he wrote from Camp Stotsenburg on October 30, “I want you to remember everything that I told you—not to worry, lean over too much, carry anything heavy, open sewing machines.” Two days later: “Remember, no hard work, lifting, excitement or worry. Lots “What  of sleep, a lunch morning and afternoon.” And on November 4  83 « HAP  is this about your going to town? No more of that or you will be in disgrace . . . Autos O.K. Street cars never.”  Bee gave birth on January 17, 1915, to a healthy baby girl, whom they named Lois Elizabeth in honor of her sister and his. Betty Arnold might be unhappy to learn that her name had come in second, but by this time her brother didn’t much care how she felt. He was free of her at last.  While the Arnolds were in the Philippines, the anti-American insurrectionist movement there was simmering, but it scarcely touched their lives, except for one night when the bugles blew the call to arms  and they were routed out of bed by a raid against the base. The men  hurried to their battle stations while the women and children were herded into the streets in front of their houses, which were built of wood and thatch and would therefore be easy to burn. The rebellious Filipinos did burn some warehouses that night but didn’t get near the quarters. Quiet was restored and everyone went back to sleep, o