s, some of whom Arnold knew, had died in the attempt. Though Orville Wright had, in fact, figured out how to do it, the news hadn't yet circulated. In desperation, Arnold did what he thought was most likely to save them. He hauled back on the elevator because, in ordinary circumstances, that was the natural way to return a plane to level flight. But if a plane gropes for level flight before it has built up sufficient airspeed to keep it airborne, it will simply go into another stall and fall off into another dive.  63 * HAP  Each time Arnold pulled back the stick, his plane did exactly that. Within thirty seconds, plane and crew plunged more than 300 feet. During that precipitous drop, Arnold later reported, he “gave up everything as lost.” But he continued to work the controls until suddenly —he never knew why—the plane came out of its spin. Either he had finally made the right move, pushing the elevator forward by inadver- tence, or the plane itself, through the momentum of its dive, built up enough airspeed to bring the controls back into play, so that he was able to level off just as he was about to hit the ground. Cutting his engine, he landed in the nearest field.  When the plane rolled to a stop, he climbed down and said to his companion, “Come on, Sandy, let’s walk over to the barracks.” Appar- ently expecting to take off and fly back to the parade ground, Lieutenant  Sands said, “Walk? Aren't we going to . . saw the fear in Arnold's face.  Hearing footsteps, they turned to see the men from the pay line running toward them silently, as if expecting to find them dead.  Half an hour later at the barracks, Arnold, Sands, and their fellow officers began opening bottles of champagne. For the others it was a celebration of Arnold’s successful demonstration and his amazing escape  He stopped short when he  from what looked like certain death. But for Arnold it was something quite different; it was an attempt to control his shattered nerves. When Milling came in fro