s heart condition, directed itself now against Spaatz in North Africa, and eventually against Eaker in England, He followed one hurry-up memo to Spaatz with another, which asked Spaatz not to be impatient with him  for his impatience. “I have been impatient all my life, Arnold wrote (as  if Spaatz didn’t know it), “and probably will be until the end of my days,  but that’s my makeup and that’s that,”*?  He began soon to unload a lot of his impatience on the Eighth Air Force, which weather and lack of planes had limited to two raids over G reduced its meager fleet that Eaker had to suspend all attacks against the  srmany in February. By the end of March, gradual attrition had so  German homeland lest his bomber force dwindle away. His B-17s hit such safe targets as Rouen, on March 28; Rotterdam,on March 31; Paris, on April 4; and Antwerp, on April 5. Meanwhile, Eaker’s repeated pleas to Arnold for more bombers may have exasperated Arnold even though, or perhaps because, he thoroughly sympathized with them. Ina March 24 letter to Eaker, he said  1 am also aware of the embarrassment which undoubtedly results in your conferences with Air Chief Marshal Portal on the buildup of your Air Force. However, as you can well realize, 1 am unable to definitely and finally commit myself to any set of figures or dates at this time.  I sincerely appreciate your problems.  He hoped, he said, that Eaker would have nineteen heavy bomb groups by June 30 and thirty-seven groups by December 31. But he could make no promises  Eaker, taking a forlorn view of Arnold's letter, sent him a bitter  311 * HAP  essay at the end of the first week of April, entitled “The Position of the Eighth Air Force.” It began by proclaiming that “the current position of the Eighth Air Force is not a credit to the American Army, After sixteen months in the war we are not yet able to dispatch more than 123 bombers toward an enemy target.”  In mid-April, Arnold was able to send four new B-17 groups to England, but