to San Diego on the night boat, and Bee and the boys followed by train. The elderly Dr. Arnold was sometimes difficult to endure, but his son was neverthe- less fortunate to have him around on one occasion at San Diego. Arnold had always enjoyed working with wood and had developed a certain skill as a cabinetmaker. To brighten their Rockwell quarters, he decided to build a flower box. One Sunday afternoon he went to the base wood- working shop with his father and his son Henry. He was cutting some boards with a band saw when his left hand slipped and before he could pull it back, he had sliced the ends off his middle, index, and fourth fingers. While he howled in pain, old Dr. Arnold calmly picked up the three nubs and wrapped them in his handkerchief. Then he bundled Hap into the car, drove him to the base hospital, and stitched the three finger ends back into place. Arnold's left hand was gnarled thereafter, and the injured fingers were twisted, but they were usable."”  Arnold's job at Rockwell was so undemanding he must have felt the Air Service had put him out to pasture, and indeed it may be that someone in Washington had decided he needed a rest after his sojourn in the hospital. The field was no longer a busy flying school and air base. It functioned now mostly as an air depot, with only a handful of enlisted men and nine officers supervising the work of eight hundred civilians. Once the daily routine was established and his methods accepted, Arnold had little to do except to make certain his work standards were maintained. He had little reason to fly because his command was limited to this one small facility; there were no others to visit and inspect, except perhaps Ream Field, a few miles south of San Diego. But he continued  Thomas M. Coffey * 108  his ulcer condition, As he was crossing the Tehachapi P jolt and noticed that the control wires to the tail surfac When he looked around he could see nothing wrong what reassuring since he had no choice but to c