rying to find out exactly what was happening in Europe, what kind of equipment and tactics the new Air Corps would have to develop if it was to match and surpass the  European air force: To this end he increased his contacts with scientists Bush, Robert Millikan, C. F. Kettering, James B. Conant, Arthur Compton, Frank Lilly, and Theodor von Karman. One day he invited George Marshall to come to lunch with several of these distinguished men. Marshall was astonished to find himself in  ike Vannevar  Thomas M. Coffey 206  personality was difficult to resist. Marshall soon put Andrews ti an Air Corps expansion plan and assigned a brilliant your Laurence S. Kuter, to help him with it  After becoming chief of staff, Marshall took another ste making ground officers air-conscious by adding the study of air the Command and General Staff School curriculum, And whe Corps study group of which Lindbergh was a member (called t Board after its chairman, Brig. Gen. Walter G. Kilner) recomm September 1, 1939, the development of a huge bomber, whi become the B-29 “Superfortress,” Marshall enthusiastically jo Arnold in endorsing it. “This establishes for the first time mission for the Air Corps,” Marshall said.* His statement ha significance because it was the first acknowledgment by a com general of the Army that the Air Corps had a distinct offensive of its own, in addition to its responsibility for support of grour  Once this concept had been accepted, the development of was a logical and necessary step. The expanding Air Corps, in it mission,” would eventually need a successor to the B-17; 4 months and years it would take to develop such an imm complex machine, there was no time to lose. Yet if Arnold had 1939 what headaches the B-29 would eventually give him, i known that it would one day put his entire career and repr jeopardy, he might have been more cautious in endorsing it  Lindbergh's participation in recommending developme: B-29 produced an ironic twist two weeks later, when