pres sion that they had the afternoon to themselves, they took off on a trip into the mountains. It was the next day before Arnold met Stalin, and when he did, he was astonished at the Russian dictator's knowledge of American aircraft. “He knew details of their performance, their charac- teristics, their armament and their armor much better than many of the senior officers in our own Air Force."* When he asked Arnold if Russia could have some American heavy bombers, Arnold indicated it was  possible, but Stalin would have to send engineers and crews to the  HAP  United States to learn how to fly and maintain them. Or, barring that, Americans could be sent with the planes to teach his men in Russia. Stalin said some such thing should be arranged, but in the event, it never was. Stalin did not encourage familiarity between Russians and non- Russians.  Though Arnold didn’t like Stalin's methods or his political views, he was quickly impressed by the man’s fearlessness, brilliance, ruthlessness, and rapid repartee. Stalin was “half-humorous, half-scathing” in his remarks to and about the British. Atone point, when he made one of his  typical remarks, “I know sixty thousand German officers I'm going to shoot,” Churchill became so agitated he paced the floor for several minutes, preaching about Christianity and civilization. It was against the laws of civilized warfare, he insisted, to shoot sixty thousand officers. Stalin waited patiently until he finished, then said again through his  interpreter, “I know sixty thousand German officers I'm going to shoot  when the war is over.  On the question of invading the continent, the Americans received strong support from Stalin. He dismissed with contempt Churchill's argument that an enlargement of the eastern Mediterranean front would be a great help to Russia. What was needed, he said, was the invasion of northern France (code-named Overlord), with a smaller, diversionary landing in southern France.'°  Whether the British like