ommander, The MacArthur-Brett bickering became so serious that Marshall sent an Air Forces colonel on his staff, Samuel E. Anderson, to find out what was happening between them. When Anderson returned, he was summoned to a meeting with Marshall and Arnold.  “Shall I relieve Brett?” Marshall asked.  Glancing at Arnold, whom he understood to be a close friend of  Brett, Anderson swallowed hard, then said, “Yes, sir.” Marshall asked, “Why? “Because, sir, as long as Brett is there, you won't have any coopera-  tion between ground and air. And I don't think you plan to relieve  General MacArthur.”**  279 HAP  Anderson didn’t know that, while Arnold admired Brett’s adminis- trative skills, they had not been close friends since 1938, when Brett tried hard for the chief of Air Corps job, which went to Arnold. To replace Brett, Arnold sent George Kenney from the Fourth Air Force in California, It proved to be one of the best choices he ever made. Without losing his own strong individuality, Kenney pleased MacArthur from the  start by his enterprising and imaginative use of the few airplanes he  had  In June, Tooey Spaatz, after organizing the flow of Eighth Air Force planes, men, and supplies from the United States to England, took off himself for London to assume command of the Eighth. To team with his bomber commander, Ira Eaker, who was already in England, he took along Gen. Frank “Monk’ March Field days  Hunter, another friend of Arnold's from the  The night of Spaatz’s departure, his wife, Ruth, bade him a tearful farewell. He did his best to comfort her, but with his usual economy of  he said. “I'll be back within six months. By that time,  words. “Relax, Hap will fire me”?  Throughout the war, Arnold kept sending his closest friends and best staff members overseas, not to punish but to reward them. In July, after Marshall established a United States Army Forces headquarters in the South Pacific, perhaps as a buffer between MacArthur and the Navy, Arnold relinquished h