a man, Hap Arnold could have coped with that. He would probably have thought no more of it than the incident during which he and Rosie O'Donnell had exchanged a paperweight at point-blank range But he still suffered from his lifelong inability to cope with women and their emotions  “I just don’t understand these things about women,” he said to Hank. “I guess I never will.”  Hank couldn't help feeling sorry for both of his parents. He knew his father loved his mother deeply—that was evident in his patience with her. It was equally evident that Bee returned his love. He wasn’t the easiest man in the world to get along with, yet she had done so for more than thirty years. But she was now fifty-eight years old. She had raised her children and they were gone; her husband had suffered four serious heart attacks, would soon have to retire, and might drop dead at any moment. The fabric of her life was changing drastically. The story  seemed to be coming to an end and she was understandably deeply  disturbed by it  Not knowing what result to expect from the atomic bomb, Arnold went to work at the beginning of August on the redeployment of more  Thomas M. Coffey 372  minister while the meetings were in progress, settled certain important questions about postwar Europe. But the talks were conducted in a strange, tentative atmosphere, not only because of the change of power in England, but also because the meetings were overshadowed by the one item that was not discussed—the atomic bomb. On the twenty- fourth, Truman and Churchill met with their combined chiefs and approved the step-by-step military strategy the chiefs recommended for the final stages of the war against Japan. These steps included the invasion contemplated for late 1945, the efforts to get Russia into the Pacific war, and the use of the British fleet in the assault upon Japan. But  Truman said nothing to his British allies that day about the atomic bomb.  (He did, however, mention it privately to Churchill.) La