rdly pretend that the conflict now engulfing Europe was simply an incident. As soon as France and England declared war on Germany, he had to acknowledge that no more planes and weapons could legally be delivered to them  To Hap Arnold this might look like an immediate blessing, because all the planes the French and British had ordered might now go to the American Air Corps by default. But it was a blessing he didn’t welcome. Contrary to the impression he had created in his contention with Morgenthau, he was in favor of sending to France and England all the planes that could be spared, He sympathized with their cause against Hitler, and he recognized as well that their orders had provided much of the money that allowed the U.S. aircraft industry to expand. His quarrel with Morgenthau concerned only the ratio of planes for the Allies and planes for his skeletal Air Corps; he didn’t want Morgenthau to send all available planes abroad and leave him with virtually none. But neither did he want to take for the Air Corps all the planes now being produced for the Allies; he had neither the money to buy them nor the men to fly them. And the Allies desperately needed them.  Fortunately, the aircraft companies and the British, with Roosevelt pretending not to notice, worked out a subterfuge that at least alleviated  204  205 HAP  the problem until it could be solved. The companies began shipping their planes north to the C:  adian border and leaving them precisely on the international line. British workers would then come forward and pull them across, thus technically avoiding delivery in the United States It was a clumsy arrangement and far from satisfactory but it did permit the continuing delivery of planes during the two months it took Roosevelt to convince Congress that Hitler’s victims should be allowed to buy weapons, on a cash-and-carry basis at least. When the problem of selling planes to the belligerent Allies was eliminated in early November —with the French and Bri