, or all you could get together if Washington were attacked by an enemy?”  “It is all we could get together in a short space of time,” Arnold  admitted. “Of course, we have some more planes but they are in use at the training fields and schools. These thirty-five planes represent our actual air force, which would be called upon in case of attack.”  “What you mean to say, then, is that the air force is scattered  throughout the country instead of being concentrated under the chief of  the Air Service “Then you don’t wish to be quoted in tomorrow's papers as saying  actly.”  that the United States has only thirty-five plane “I would not like to tell how many planes we have,” Arnold said, “but we have been trying for five years to build up an air force, and you heard it all this afternoon—thirty-five planes.” The public was quite impressed by Arnold's alarming testimony and his pathetic aerial display, but President Coolidge was not. He happened  125 *# HAP  to be ill that day, and apparently the thirty-five planes also flew over or near the White House, disturbing his nap. When General Patrick heard about the president's displeasure, he denied that he had ever authorized the stunt, but since he took no disciplinary action against Arnold, the truth of the matter was left in doubt. The only thing certain about the whole incident is that it annoyed an already unfriendly president, failed to help the Air Service, embarrassed General Patrick, and cooled even further the already chilly relations between him and Arnold.  As Mitchell's court-martial approached, not only the Army but the entire country was in an uproar about it and most of the officers in the Air Service angrily rallied around him. Support for him in the Air Service was not unanimous, however. Men like Col. Benjamin Foulois, who had always disliked him, could hardly be expected to embrace him now, expecially since he was patently guilty of the breach of discipline with which he was being charged. And General P