vy en masse, he made it look as if the campaign for air power were simply an Army ys. Navy struggle. Mitchell was undoubtedly air power's most brilliant advocate. He envisioned almost everything that happened twenty years later During World War II, including the ascendancy of the aircraft carrier over the battleship, the ascendancy of land-based aircraft over aircraft carriers, the use of huge bombing armadas to attack the enemy homeland, and even the use of parachute troops behind enemy lines. But his propensity for conten- tion and his intolerence of stupidity were so keen that he often made  enemies when he tried to make converts  Thomas M. Coffey * 102  While Arnold was launching his forest patrol, Billy Mitchell, back in Washington, was instigating a variety of other projects with the same general purpose—to gain attention and support for the Air Service. Though he was not in charge of the Air Service, he had the public thinking so. He was aviation's foremost spokesman, and when he wasn't talking about it, he was doing something about it. One of the things he did was to set up a border patrol to help the Immigration Service guard against illegal entry, especially from Mexico. Since Arnold's part in this job was to patrol the whole California~Mexico border as well as the en- tire Pacific coast, he soon had enough work to keep him busy. On July 4, after learning that Mitchell was at El Paso inspecting the Texas end of the patrol, he flew down from San Francisco to see the now famous flying general for the first time since both had returned from Europe.  Arnold found Mitchell a changed man. “He was sharper, more alert than ever.” At the same time he had developed “an undercurrent of angry impatience” with people who were impeding the progress of aviation, especially people in the military. He was bitterly convinced that the growth of aviation was being blocked deliberately by battleship advocates and other enemies of air power, These included a lot of entrenched A