ere allotted twenty-four hours to get to Vero Beach. His last one was rg ~ ours and forty-five utes lea : = the ground twenty-one hours and forty-five minute after leaving far Fiel ex! ever D) Ss : sec  ch Field, an excellent achievement for planes that cruised at nc  more tha oO z i an two hundred miles per hour and had to stop several times to  169 « HAP  refuel. As for the rest of the Florida maneuver, Arnold didn’t see much  of it because he was summoned to Washington by General Craig, who was now the Army chief of staff.  Unimpressed by Florida on his first trip there and chilled by its unusual forty-degree weather, Arnold didn’t mind the side trip to Washington until he found out why he had been summoned, Craig broke the news to him that as of December 28, he was to be assistant chief of the Air Corps under G appointed chief to succeed Benny Foulois.  n. Oscar Westover, who had just been  Once again Arnold astonished Craig. He protested that he didn’t want the job. He would rather go back to Marc h Field, he said, and even give back his gencral’s star, than return to Washington as a desk soldier.  Craig listened patiendy, perhaps with amusement since he knew Arnold well by this time, then told him to forget what he would rather do. Westover wanted him as his assistant and he, Craig, had already approved the appointment.  [he matter may not have been decided quite so simply. Westover did admire Arnold, no doubt about that. Two years earlier after a visit to California (Westover was then assistant chief), he wrote a thank-you note to Bee Arnold in which he said, “March Field certainly made a wonderful showing in the Quarterly Test, and on each of my visits I have been impressed by the fact that March Field has not alone a wonderful Commanding Officer and wife of a Commanding Officer, but also has acquired a way of doing things, both in the military and social way, as to make it stand out comparatively among Air Corps stations A year later, Westover was instrumen