lings about him. Now she found herself thinking differently about him. Not only was he an aviator, which in 1912 was exciting enough in itself; he was suddenly a famous aviator, celebrated in The New York Times  “T used to know that young man,” she said proudly to several of her young women friends.  They scoffed and teased her. “You never saw him in your life,” one of them said  “I do know him,” she insisted. But would she ever see him again? In the autumn she would be going home for good, her studies completed. Perhaps they would run into each other in Ardmore, though it would hardly mean anything even if they did; she was still engaged to another man  In late June, Arnold, who was now the Air Service engineering officer, flew up to the Burgess plant in Marblehead with Kirtland to take delivery of the Army’s first plane with propellor and engine in front.”* It was called a “tractor” plane in those days because its engine pulled it instead of pushing it. This one featured a 70-horsepower Renault engine, in contrast to the 35- or 40-horsepower engine in the Wright B-models, and was equipped with floats for water takeoffs and landings. Arnold found it easy to fly after he accustomed himself to looking around and over that big engine in front of him. He quickly developed confidence in the plane, not only because it had been thoroughly tested by the Burgess Company pilots, whom he considered reliable, but also because it easily passed all the Army acceptance tests that he himself had conducted. He had no misgivings about the plane when he and Kirdand loaded it for what they hoped would be a nonstop flight from Salem, Massachusetts, to Bridgeport, Connecticut, where they were to demon- strate its capabilities in National Guard maneuvers. Their takeoff was smooth and routine, but as they flew south past Boston, ominous clouds gathered and rough weather closed in, forcing them to land at South Duxbury, near Plymouth, Early the next morning, after refilling the gas tanks a