n the day he arrived, Eaker had written in a letter to Arnold, “this is a great day for the 8th Air Force. Our Combat crew availability went up in a straight line today from 100 to 215. That is because the five new groups have finished their two weeks’ training and are off this afternoon on their first mission.” But their first mission was a short, easy one to St. Omer, and this illustrated a problem that was becoming daily more acute as the Germans shifted fighter strength west to meet the American daylight bombing threat. Eaker had realized for some ime the need for long-range fighters to escort his bombers. It was one thing to accept prewar American Air Corps doctrine in theory; quite another to persist in it after combat experience proved it didn’t work. The B-17s, despite their unprecedented armor and fire power, couldn't fully protect themselves against concerted attack by German fighters. Eaker had faced up to that in the autumn of 1942 when he began asking for auxiliary gas tanks for his P-47 fighters. In an April 5 letter to Arnold he  Thomas M. Coffey * 312  All Air  Is who  an Icelandic mountain. Later, Arnold was to say of Andrews,  Corps officers saw in him the leader among the Air Force gener  might become one of the outstanding combat commanders in the war.”  On the day Andrews died, however, Arnold had problems of his own, While preparing for the Trident conference between Roosevelt and Churchill, scheduled to begin the next day in Washington, he suffered another heart attack and was rushed to Walter Reed. Once again the doctors had difficulty keeping him inactive. He wrote a note to George Marshall that very night. But at least he was willing to admit now that something was wrong with him. “This is one hell of a ime for this to happen. My engine started turning over at 160 when it should have been doing 74 to 76. For this | am sorry.”  Marshall —who was busy that day with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the next day with the Andrews memorial