mere officer,” and “seemingly sufficient to buy anything for anybody at any time.”  All this money and all these contracts amounted to just so much paper, however, and did nothing to solve his immediate problem. It would take planes and guns to fight the Germans if the need arose —which it might at any time, since they now controlled the whole European continent—but he still didn’t have muc h more than paper to throw up against them. And Morgenthau continued to chip away at him  On June 5, Arnold protested to Marshall against Morgenthau’s plan to  send a shipment of P-36 fighters to Sweden. On July 9, Morgenthau  arranged delivery 0! 0 aircraft engines to England. On August 9, he asked for the release to the British of 50 more Allison engines that the Air Corps desperately needed.  On August 14, Arnold finally arranged a conference with the new secretary of war, Henry L. Stimson, whom Roosevelt had appointed to replace Woodring after the fall of France.”® Stimson, as Arnold soon realized, did not intend to be a figurehead like Woodring. A Republican  who had been secretary of war in William Howard Taft's cabinet and  secretary of state under Herbert Hoover, he was the only man in public life who advocated stopping the Japanese in 1931 when they first ina. He was a tough, crusty, intelligent, and prestigious old  invaded C) man whose health was poor but whose tongue was sharp. He shared  Morgenthau's concern about Hitler but he also understood the pressing need to develop an American air force  With Stimson that day was Robert P. Patterson, a former circuit court of appeals judge in New York w ho was replacing Louis Johnson as assistant secretary of war. A veteran of the First World War, Patterson  was so convinced of the nation's need to rearm that he had enlisted in    219 HAP  thau, as well as his procurement problems in general, began gradually to  diminish At a September 27 White House conference, to which Arnold was,  oe  219 HAP  thau, as well as his procureme