s to  Thomas M. Coffe  on the subject, in which he pointed ou nation, would depend on the peacetir manufacturing industry; that a strong air transport system would be impor adapted to military use; and that, ther include “maximum encouragement enterprise in United States internation  With the war almost won, he wa: more immediate basis in May of 1945. A.T.C. transport planes to the airline: needed for military use. (He thought, his son's father-in-law, Donald Doug] much for converting Army transport encouraging the airlines to hire dischar suggesting that, to avoid delay, the airl from the Air Forces contracts for new R. Smith ( soon be returning to his civilian post a:  In a May 28 memo to C  he offered advice on the best way to hi airline industry  lam convinced that now more than e1 airlines have one man who can brin think out ways and means of incr advantage in every way possible of ar give them  Arnold was still, at heart, as much had been before the war. He had realiz own edifice—the U.S. Army Air Force he understood—sadly, no doubt—tha building. But he couldn't resist the urg  airline people, toward their goals.  After a month in Washington, du and reassuring visits with President T cised his option to get out of town and the theaters of action. He took off Jun Pacific," After landing at Hamilton } spent two days at his ranch near Sc  bought feed for the few animals on hi  Thomas M.Cofley ® 368  bis deputies in Washington, mobilizing them and telng them what to  say as is representatives at this meting, Then, ot content with ths, he set LeMay Ching back to Washington to deliver one of his forefal firsband briefings at the meeting. Arnold was determined to make the fn die on apanan At Fores sho, which coud then be wea an overwhelming argument in favor of establishing an independent air force  From Guam, he flew to Ivo Jima, about 700 mules closer to Japan,  for a look atthe scars of batle andthe ai facies which had now been twit there, While at no, he picked u