rta tion, You remember he assured us of that when we were at his house for dinner,”  These lines suggest that Armold had already become impatient with Marshall, whom he had just met a few days earlier, Perhaps he was simply expressing his eagerness to ge tis mancuver finished so he could return to Bee, He didn't yet know about the high-level problems that had thrown Marshal into command of the whole operation, He didn’t know either that a shortage of small bots would delay the landing operation unt the twenty-ninth  Day after day, his letters to Bee continued, each conveying a warm Jove and tenderness that Hap Ammold, burdened with the notion of his cay that man ought not be demonstrative, found dificult to convey in person. On January 51, he pleaded with her to write him again. “I do not know ifyou are stl in bed, are getting better or worse, and it worries me  very much,” By this time, the White Force of which he was a part, had landed  successfully and begun its advance northward toward Man maneuvers are getting more strenuous evry day," he wrote Bee, "Some day its just along hie ovr the road but yesterday and today we had to  get the enemy out of a postion and so had to hike over ploughed  ground, through sugar cane fields and bamboo thickets.” AAtone point on tis march, Arnold and his company of Infantry  came upon Lieutenant Marshall under the shade of a bamboo clump,  HAP  otherwise I can't explain it. . . . I : your new rule and make love with ther day. You dear girl, I love you 10w I will be able to wait until I see  ce to see her had almost reached its d the separation this trip as well as become dearer to me and more han in all of the time I have known  so much but sorry that it must be  ly concentrated on his wife during he gave the maneuver itself only en the big guns around him began s, he could hardly ignore it. On the yuted out of “bed”—the hard rock cet, under a shelter half—when the : island. “Search lights turned night uously. Red and green lights