ad not been able to put airplanes out of his mind, he reacted quickly when, in the spring of 1911, he received an inkling that his Signal Corps possibilities, instituted by Captain Cowan more than two years earlier, were not dead. On April 7 he wrote, through channels, to the adjutant general in Washington:?"  Sir  I have the honor to request that I be detailed for aeronautical  work with the Signal Corps  It is believed that my experience in topographical work will prove to be of value in that work. Attention is invited in this connection to letter from the Chief Engineer's Office, Philippine Division, com- k performed under his direction  mending me for we  After dispatching this letter, he proceeded to take the Ordnance examination and was awaiting the result when he received an official letter from the War Department asking him if he would be willing to volunteer for training under the Wright brothers at Dayton, Ohio, as an airplane pilot  There could be no doubt about his answer, but as a courtesy, he showed the letter to his commanding officer, who apparently thought he was seeking advice. The reaction was exactly what Arnold would expect from an Infantry officer. “Young man, I know of no better way for a  person to commit suicide.”  Arnold was aware by this time that air travel was unquestionably  41 HAP  dangerous but it was also a marvelously adventurous challenge, and he was beginning to sense that for a man of vision it offered a future of unlimited possibilities. He invited no one else to advise him in the matter He simply informed the War Department that he was ready, and about a week later he received his copy of Special Order 95, dated April 21 1911, which said  The following named officers are detailed for aeronautical duty with the Signal Corps, and will proceed to Dayton, Ohio, for the purpose of undergoing a course of instruction in operating the Wright  airplane 2nd Li. Henry H. Arnold, 29th Infantry 2nd Lt. Thomas DeW, Milling, 15th Cavalry  Tho