nding radio signals and Miling, in another experiment, send  ing smoke signals back to earth,  HAP  \e stick, his plane did exactly that. ew plunged more than 300 feet. old later reported, he “gave up o work the controls until suddenly me out of its spin. Either he had | the elevator forward by inadver- ¢ momentum of its dive, built up back into play, so that he was able the ground. Cutting his engine, he  , he climbed down and said to his  valk over to the barracks.” Appar- to the parade ground, Lieutenant  He stopped short when he  to see the men from the pay line xpecting to find them dead. «s, Arnold, Sands, and their fellow ampagne. For the others it was a ionstration and his amazing escape But for Arnold it was something ontrol his shattered nerves. When he found the party in full bloom. table” and everybody seemed to be tas not succeeding. He was in the vilots at some point in their careers. of F.O.F.—Fear of Flying That's it. A man doesn’t face death  i enthusiasm for aviation had been st as happy if he never saw another  commanding officer, he wrote: “At s in such a condition that I will not hat, in another report, he added: ¢ past year and a half I have been ind at almost any time. That being in to put me out of commission the bt in his mind that he was out of machine in the air,” he admitted, $ going to happen to it.”  Thomas M. Coffey 62  On the fifth, they tried their revolutionary experiment in conjunc- tion with actual artillery fire. By the time they finished, Arnold had faced a near-disaster so terrifying he decided to give up flying forever.  Though the day was dark and cold, his Wright C-model plane was running smoothly when he took off from the Fort Riley parade ground with Lt. A.L.P. Sands of the Field Artillery as an observer/photographer Flying over the artillery range on the big 52,000-acre base 140 miles west of Kansas City, Arnold located the target he had been told to find and radioed its position to the battery awaiting his message. Then,