esumption. Her father had belonged to the Church of England before coming to America, her mother was a Unitarian, and she considered herself a Quaker. She did not choose to  Thomas M,. Coffey * 72  quickly how to get things done in the Army, and his combination of charm, directness, and persistence was difficult to resist. In any case, the Langley hearings gave him an opportunity to spend much of the summer just a few miles from his fiancée, and it is safe to say that Miss Bee Pool got more of his attention than Langley’s unfortunate airplane The wedding was set for September 10.  On August 16, by which time Arnold's Infantry assignment had come through, he was back in Washington to testify—together with General Scriven, Tommy Milling, Billy Mitchell, and several others—at a hearing of the House of Representatives Military Affairs Committee on the subject of aeronautics in the Army. Mitchell spoke just before Arnold and, as was his custom, delivered a long monologue. He was more than ever enthusiastic about flying, although he still hadn't done much of it  When Arnold’s turn came, he mentioned his status immediately. “I am to be relieved the first of September and will go back to join my regiment,”"*  “At your own request?” Chairman James Hay of Virginia asked.  “Yes, sir.”  He then spoke at some length about the role of airplanes in the current Balkan war; the valiant efforts of the Signal Corps within the previous six months under Scriven to foster aviation in the Army; the high death rate among American fliers; his belief that while the airplane was invented in the United States, “then the country went to sleep and left France, Germany and England to develop it”; the Air Service should not yet become a separate, independent branch.  “Until it becomes better able to take care of itself,” he said, “I think it would be far better with the Signal Corps. At the present time it is not  and his feeling that  able to take care of itself.” (This was an issue destined to k