s steel carpet made an awesome racket when a plane landed on it or took off from it, But it could be installed in two days and it was an  effective substitute for a paved runway  “that  In early March, responding to President Roosevelt's insistence we find ways and means of carrying home to Japan proper, in the form Arnold called in Jimmy  of a bombing raid, the real meaning of war,"* Doolittle and told him to select a plane that “would go 2000 miles carrying 2000 pounds of bombs and take off short.” The plan, Arnold said, was to bomb Tokyo with planes that would take off from a Navy carrier and then fly across Japan to land at an American base in China,  After Doolittle had spent some time and thought on the project and  had selected the B one day and said, “I know more about this mission, I know more about  as the best plane for it, he went into Arnold’s of fice  the aircraft, I know more about the crews than anyone else. | would like to lead it.”  Arnold said, “I need you badly here, Jimmy. I'd rather see you stay on my staff.”  Doolittle did not conceal his disappointment. Finally Arnold said, “Well, I'll tell you what. If it’s all right with Miff [Harmon], it’s all right  with me,” Doolittle saluted, ran as fast as he could to the chief of air staff's    1 HAP  Soong on May 6 and assured him everything possible was being done to keep supplies moving to China Arnold may have hoped that would take care of the matter for the  moment. but it didn’t. Roosevelt. recognizing the desperate need to keep  “~~  1 HAP  Soong on May 6 and assured him everything possible was being done to keep supplies moving to China  Arnold may have hoped that would take care of the matter for the moment, but it didn’t. Roosevelt, recognizing the desperate need to keep Chiang Kai-shek operating, however ineptly, against Japan, strongly suggested to Arnold that he assign fifty heavy bombers (B-24s) to the China-Burma-India hump route. Arnold indicated both his reluctance and his concurrence