ncern about her health: “All my love—get some curves, eat well, be your own sweet self and come home to your Hap.”  In October he wrote a remarkable article entitled “Our Power to Destroy War," in which he argued for a continuing national research and development program, but to the surprise of those who knew him,  not necessarily for an endless commitment to military aircraft  376  # HAP  If the nations of the world find that they cannot act in concert, our possession of power will be our only resource. Therefore we must at all cost maintain it  What do we need to maintain it?  I will start by emphasizing that 1 am not holding any brief for a permanent air force in terms of the mighty air forces we built up during the war. What we will need is an adequate, well-trained, fully equipped force of whatever kind is necessary to use the new weapons and devices properly.  This was the man who, more than any other, had brought the _ Air Forces to the ultimate moment of power. In  airplane and the L 1945, only an airplane could have delivered the atomic bombs to Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The release of those bombs was the culmina- tion of the campaign Billy Mitchell, Arnold, and others had waged in favor of air power since the end of World War I. On the day of the Hiroshima cataclysm, the Air Forces Arnold had built were capable of dominating the entire world. But now, only two months later, he was telling the airmen who would follow him that if something better came along, they must be ready ruthlessly to discard the airplane.  In late October, he flew to Mexico as President Truman's represent- ative to try to build up that country’s air strength, And on November 8, he wrote a memorandum to George Marshall recommending his own retirement from active duty, But he was still on active duty later that month when Marshall resigned as chief of staff to become ambassador to China. Did this mean Marshall had won their five-dollar bet as to which of them would retire first? Arnold di