was the inordinate amount of mischief he perpetrated. Free at last from the restrictions his stern father had laid upon him, he seemed to explode in an adolescent frenzy of high jinks, as if there were an imp inside him that he had to release before he could get on with the business of becoming a man.  Much of this mischief arose from the activities of a secret nocturnal  te Cen ya ac ai  ws Me  ocd naka le  roi niga  dy i ol lk  hl ey ee ec coke ge ela dan Herida yang Pant dna ch i ko a oes cn clay hk i eit  ‘ih hit raining set ‘Miata teal Pew aati ei  ‘ulnv  ee i we ln  yu  last lisac ea  eat i a oe od a a i el cd ete  ‘otinvellcderra Sl al  ios ri iis  ed gli dt hi  ils dec hb soled tae ge  ah fy dt chan ag be  ui i ve elt apo hind ble Lap vat Jl i Hoe i aidan ewe nd nani Cuan tlm doth roarontqn delice e p alia bi  m ony eta nls ale ace  to, lagna  pelican egl l  un pve pa  uy Bo age  als  23 « HAP  But despite such flaws, they were people of quality and z in the community, and it seemed to Dr. Arnold that their g daughter Eleanor would be quite suitable for his son was about to achieve the socially acceptable status of an  in March 1907, when Dr. Arnold was treating Eleanor Pool nead cold, he decided the time was ripe for his son to meet eft the house, he casually mentioned to her mother that his tr, Betty, was planning a trip to West Point to visit Henry. or like to go along? The outing would be good for her, help her cold. Eleanor’s mother thought it an excellent idea, and or herself. The plans were set and one weekend in April, |, chaperoned by Betty Arnold, who was seven years her her first trip to the academy. After a train trip to New York, |asmall, rinky-dink trolley that tootled up the right bank of to the little station just below the West Point plateau. From »de up the hill in a horse-drawn hack to the only available always-crowded West Point Hotel near Trophy Point. A ig, reputed once to have been General Washington's head- necame each weekend a swarm