,000 people, basically a horse-and-buggy town, on the edge of which those two stubborn brothers Orville and Wilbur Wright were trying, with their strange invention, to introduce the age of flight even before the automobile had been fully accepted. There were a few cars, of course owned by the wealthy and venturesome, but there were no saoeneisedl taxis. To reach the Wright Aircraft factory by any conveyance more modern than a horse and buggy, young officers had to take a little Toonerville trolley, which was open in the rear.' At the factory, a small brick building, they were greeted by Orville Wright (Wilbur was the nin France) and the manager, Frank Russell. It did not take long for these two to show the newcomers around the plant. They had only four rooms, in which they employed no more than twenty-five men, In the largest room, at the rear of the factory, they assembled their aircraft, two of which they were now manufacturing for the Army. These were ‘o be the second and third planes ever purchased by the Army, which had bought its first plane from the Wright brothers in 1909. The year before that, in response to a Signal Corps call for bids, Orville Wright had brought a plane to Fort Myer, near Washington, for a aecanasera Hod and it was during this demonstration that Lt. Thomas Selfridge, Wright's passenger, was killed, when some of the wing wires came oe and flew into the path of the propellor. It had taken Orville Wright several months to recover from his own injuries in the crash, but this had not discouraged him. In 1909, he and his brother had er with another plane, the same catapult-launched model. This time their demonstration was so successful they had earned a $30,000 contract for the plane and the training of two officers to fly Sane cen ix officers—Lts. Frank Lahm, Frederic E Humphries, Ben Raid D Foulois, Oliver A. Dickinson, and George E, M. Kelly, and Ca Paul  Beck—had undertaken flying lessons, though none had be  en cer pd a aircraft pilots tif