omplete a full Air Corps career, let alone play such a pivotal role in the development of air power and air transport. Arnold was an incurable maverick who never hesitated to act on his own initiative or take positions that infuriated his superiors. Time  after time he found himself in deep trouble  January 1917—The Signal Corps Aviation School at Rockwell Field, North Island, San Diego. Captain Arnold was the school’s supply officer when, on January 10, two men, Lt, Col, Harry G. Bishop and Lt W. A. Robertson, took off from the field and disappeared. At nine o'clock the next morning when there was still no word from the lost fliers, Capt. H. A. Dargue, the officer in charge of training, went to the base secretary, Maj. Frank Lahm, who had authorized the flight, to suggest that they send out search planes. Lahm vetoed the idea then and renewed the veto again at noon. Later in the day, base commander Col. W. A. Glassford also declined the suggestion.’  By this time the matter was causing agitation on the base, especially among the young fliers, who could imagine themselves crashing in the desert without hope that anyone would come looking for them. Arnold openly sided with Dargue against Major Lahm and Colonel Glassford. When Lahm denied that he had even authorized the flight, intimating that it was Dargue who had approved it, Arnold stepped forward and swore he had seen Lahm’s signature on the permit.®  Despite the protests of Dargue, Ar nold, and other young fliers, one day followed another without any move to send planes in search of the lost men. Not until January 16, six days after their disappearance, did planes finally take off to look for them  For three days, the planes from San Diego, plus several people on the ground, criss-crossed northern Mexico in an effort to find the two t was later learned, came within a  lost fliers.7 One of the search plane few miles of their plane, which was downed near the head of the Gulf of California. By the third day of the d