here as Arnold's representative, he was amazed at this. It would be two or three days before he left for home, he said, and he offered to make himself available at MacArthur's convenience,  Sutherland said he was sorry but MacArthur wouldn't be able to work him in. However, since he and Kenney had heard the story, that was sufficient,  After Kuter returned to Washington, he found that Arnold was furious at him. Arnold had received a cablegram from MacArthur stating that Kuter hadn't had the courtesy to call on him when he visited his headquarters. Arnold had already drafted a cable to MacArthur apologizing “for the rudeness shown by my Deputy Chief of Staff.”  Kuter erupted when he saw this cable. “You don’t apologize,” he said to Arnold, “And you don't send that message. You either fire me or you send some other kind of message.” He then told Arnold the w hole  story and that was the end of it  Arnold received some bad news on February 24 about the airlift operations over the Hump from India to China. Since his promise to Chiang Kai-shek a year earlier, the A.T.( had been gradually increas- ing its tonnage over the Hump, but the airlift hadn't quite kept pace with Arnold's expectations. Now he learned that during January and the first  Thomas M, Coffey * 338  definitely in favor of the Allies. And there was no more talk from British about putting an end to daylight bombing. With the additio long-range fighter escorts, the American strategy of daylight preci  bombing was beginning to prove sound,  Arnold could now almost relax about the air war in Europe, bu worries about the B-29, China, and Japan were intensifying. First he to settle the question of who would control the B-29s and how would be used when they were ready. Then he had to figure out ho get them ready and make sure they were worth what they cost. reputation, perhaps his whole career, was riding on the Superfort and its contribution to the war effort.  Though no one yet knew whether this giant bomber wa