nded that day he was able, for the first time in four years, to look at an airplane without f going to die,” he decided. It was not up to him. But when his time did come, he would just as soon die flying as any other way  r. “When I’m going to die, I'm  By the sheer power of his will he had conquered his phobia, redeemed his self-respect, and renewed his courage. He seemed to have banished forever his fear of flying.  Arnold was not yet fully refledged when the unfortunate flight of Lt. Col. Harry G. Bishop and Lt. W.A. Robertson into the Mey desert occurred on January 10, 1917, with results that threatened the careers of both Arnold and Bert Dargue. Colonel Bishop, a Field Artillery officer, had requested the use of a plane and pilot to take him on a flight the destination of which was unspecified. Maj. Frank Lahm,  ican  once Arnold’s French instructor at West Point and currently the base  Thomas M. Coffey 86  There were twenty-three officers with Military Aviator or Junior Military Aviator ratings in San Diego when Arnold arrived, in addition to twenty-five students, One of the rated pilots, he was happy to learn, was his friend from the Philippines Bert Dargue, now also a captain, and officer in charge of taining. Since Dargue and Arnold were renewing re dominated by airplanes, Arnold could  their friendship in an atmost not help feeling a certain pressure to return to flying. His retirement from the air, in the face of danger, had left a bitter sense of failure, which, for his own peace of mind, he ought to expunge. For more than four months he resisted the pressure to fly again, but eventually, whether or not he had to fly as a means of redeeming his self-respect was no longer the compelling question. Confronted every day by the sound of engines, the smell of the cockpit, the conversation of Dargue and the other pilots, he began to want to fly again. Most of the planes on the field were the new Curtiss JNs, the soon-to-be famous “Jennys,” and they intrigued hi