crossed like a figure eight  Well, you can’t cross a bicycle chain, Arnold said to himself when he saw it. It will break, It must break. Of all people on earth, two bicycle manufacturers ought to know that. Looking back years later, however, he had to acknowledge that he never heard of one of their crossed chains breaking.*  Arnold and Milling studied all this construction in minute detail, knowing that when the two new planes were delivered to the Army, they would be expected to teach mechanics how to maintain them. But the days they spent at the factory were not limited to learning how aircraft were built. In one room, the Wrights had balanced an older model plane between two sawhorses and converted it into a ground trainer to help their students (civilian as well as military) become thoroughly familiar with the controls, which were more complex than those in modern aircraft. Since the aileron had not been invented, lateral control of the plane was maintained by a slight warping or twisting of the wings. The stick that controlled warping, located between the two seats, also controlled the rudder. The pilot could make a right turn by pulling the warping lever back to lift the left wing, while simultaneously rotating the handgrip to the right for however many degrees of right rudder he might want. This was not a natural maneuver. Only by long drilling could a man learn it so well that it would be instinctual when he was actually flying a plane.’ And it had to be instinctual because the balance of the early planes was too delicate to tolerate more than a minor mistake. On the outside of each seat was another, much simpler, stick, which controlled the elevator. Like the yoke in a modern plane, it put the craft into a climb by raising the nose when it was pulled back; it put the craft into a descent by lowering the nose when it was pushed forward. Few of the Wright students had trouble with the elevator controls, but no student could be trusted to fly alone until he ha