fect the Wrights had upon Hap Arnold was a remark he made in summing up his feelings about them. “More than anyone I have ever known or read about, the Wright brothers gave me the sense that nothing is impossible.” In later years, when Arnold’s Air Force subordinates were forced to cope with his stubborn insistence on this belief, they could have blamed the Wright brothers.  After their first solo flights, Arnold and Milling continued to practice almost daily for another six weeks, polishing their skills and  convincing themselves that they now controlled the airplane instead of  Thomas M. Coffey * 46  affinity for the aircraft they could sense its moods and movements through the seat of their pants. Arnold never believed that, perhaps because he didn’t consider himself a “seat of the pants” pilot  “In that day, when there was none of our modern standardization of planes, controls or flying equipment,” he recalled at the end of his career, “it was seldom the plane, or an unknown quantity in the air, but almost always the pilot, who was blamed for being in error. You had to believe that to keep up your morale. Even today, when the airplane is ninety per cent of flying, and the pilot less than ten percent, you will find young airmen who insist, ‘Joe must have done something special {to account for his accident].’ All this influenced the subsequent ‘seat of the pants’ flying tradition much longer than it should have." (When  Arnold said this, he had already proven that intellig  nee was more im-  portant to a ftic z several hundred  than instinct by rapidly convertir  thousand young civilian groundlings into skillful military pilots during World War IL.)  In any event, Milling did consider himself a “natural” pilot and derived some satisfaction from the fact that he soloed after only five days of training and one hour and fifty-four minutes in the air. He felt that Arnold, who wasn’t ready until he had put in three hours and forty- eight minutes of flying time, “didn’t