ople at Harpers who had once talked about selling 60,000 or 80,000 copies were then expecting to sell only 6,000 to 8,000 nic  Bruce and Barbara came for Christmas and found him cheerful despite his dismal prospects. He no longer had the strength to make his  Thomas M. Coffey * 386  indicated. At this time, Mollenhauer happened to be building a new house, and Arnold, limited now in what he could do to occupy his time, would come, not for treatment, but to sit and watch the carpenters at work. His gradual debilitation was obvious to Dr. Mollenhauer. At each visit, he would be slightly thinner.”  To while away his hours, Arnold used also to visit some neighbors he had met through Bill Laidlaw, Gordon and Josephine Tevis, but they seldom visited the Arnolds because Mrs. Tevis didn’t like Bee. Since Hap had been told by the doctors not to walk any more than necessary, he would ride to the Tevis ranch on a scooter and sit for an hour or so, making small talk. It seemed to Josephine Tevis that the man was completely at loose ends. She would invite him to dinner when Bee was out of town,”*  During one of Bee's trips, Lois came to the ranch so there would be someone in the house with her father, but her drinking had begun to affect her nerves, and it was not easy even for him to get along with her, She was in the kitchen one day with her back to the glass door when Simmons came and knocked. She jumped in fright, then accused him of sneaking up on her. Arnold came into the kitchen and sided with her, as he often did, but the next day he took Simmons to Sonoma and bought him an ice cream cone. It was as close as he could come to apologizing.*  Arnold, having always been soft with Lois, could hardly change now when her condition seemed almost as hopeless as his own. Her attach- ment to him had become so obsessive that she tended to become hostile to anyone else who was attached to him. She hadn't been able to get along very well with her mother for several years. At one time s