't” was a word that made him spring into action.  “The hell you can’t,” he said. “Billy Bruce, come here and bring that book.”  He stared open-mouthed as Bruce stumbled through a page or so, shrist!” he cried.  then grabbed the book and began reading it himself.  133 * HAP  “Who in hell would write stuff like that? No wonder the kid can’t read. Bee, get rid of this goddamned trash.”  Turning to his son he said, “I'll tell you what I'll do, I'll write you a book about real people who did real things. And it'll be a hell of a lot better than that junk.”  When Arnold decided to do something, he never decided to do it the next day. That very moment he went into his study and began work on a children’s book—the first of a series—whose hero was a pioneer airman named, not surprisingly, Bill Bruce.  At about this time, the early summer of 1926, Bee became pregnant again, and on February 24, 1927, she gave birth to another healthy baby boy. They named him David Lee, and he slipped into the family without causing any noticeable fuss among the other three children.  In the early summer of 1927, Arnold was called upon to satisfy an old adversary, President Coolidge, who had decided to vacation in the Black Hills of South Dakota and wanted his mail flown to him there by the Army Air Service so that it would be on his desk every Tuesday and Thursday morning. Since South Dakota was in the Seventh Corps Area, the responsibility fell upon Arnold. His pilots were to fly the presidential packet from North Platte, Nebraska, to Rapid City on those two mornings each week, and no excuse would be accepted if they didn’t get there—Coolidge was very demanding about his mail. Arnold was sum- moned to two meetings where this was impressed upon him. At the second of these meetings, the postmaster general himself, Harry New, told him that whatever happened, come rain, sleet, snow, or high wind, the president's mail had to get through.  It was an assignment that required some imaginative thought