future? For the day when the French and British might mobilize totally? For the day when the entire world, especially the United States, might mobilize totally?  The industry was not ready to move until some of those questions were answered, and Arnold didn’t have the answers. When he tried to get the companies into action on his Air Corps expansion plans, he could assure them of the urgency that they start now and promise that the government would pay later, But urgency was only one of their considerations.  While Arnold was wrestling with this problem, he was hit by another shocking development, After all of Roosevelt's talk about 10,000 planes a year, he had tested the political atmosphere, then sent a special defense message to Congress on January 12, 1939, asking for only 3,000 planes. At about the same time, Arnold was informed by the General Staff that when he testified at the House hearings on War Department appropriations for 1940, he would be ordered to ask for even less money than he had requested the previous year. Only 219 new aircraft could be procured in 1940 despite the crisis in Europe, he was told, because that would bring the Air Corps to the congressionally established legal limit 0) planes, Instead of expanding, his force seemed suddenly to be shrinking. The situation was now so absurd it could only be obscured by something equally absurd. And it was  In mid-January, Arnold learned that the president, in his efforts to circumvent the deliberate sloth of Secretary of War Woodring, had  signed an executive order, drafted by Treasury Secretary Morgenthau,  193 * HAP  that gave the procurement division of the Treasury Department jurisdic- tion over all purchasing for the Army and Navy, Morgenthau had argued that he needed such authority because Woodring and Arnold were resisting his efforts to send airplanes to France and England.  Arnold had first tasted Morgenthau’s power in late December 1938, when Morgenthau, after negotiating with Monnet, had a