rge. He hadn't been there long when he became aware of the real reason Arnold had sent him, An American admiral arrived one day with a representative of the State Department, apparently intent on doing for the Navy what Smith had already done for the Air Force:  Smith had gone to bed early that night and was asleep when the State Department man came and told him that the admiral wanted to see him. The first thing the admiral said was, “I understand you've made quite a lot of engagements over here. Can I see the letter that authorizes  you?” Smith said verbal instructions from General Arnold and I did just exactly w hat he  No, you can’t because there isn’t any letter. I have my  asked me to do.” “That's extraordinary behavior,” the admiral exclaimed he said, “we came over here  Smith became impatient. “Well, look and took over this goddamned place and we're building an airfield here now. As long as I satisfy General Arnold, I think I'll get along pretty  Thomas M. Coffey 294  The first American heavy bomber group arrived in this country accompanied by its fighter group, together with some eighteen thousand American Air Force personnel as long ago as the end of July. By the end of September the number of American Air Force personnel has risen to about fifty-five thousand. So far the results have been pitifully small. Far from dropping bombs on Germany, the American daylight bombers have not ventured beyond Lille  Meanwhile, the American public has been led to believe that a really serious contribution has been made by the American Air Force  Addressing himself in this memo to the American daylight bombing methods, Churchill Wrote  Considering the American professional interests and high reputa- tions which are engaged in this scheme, and the shock it we the American people and to the Admini  ild be to ration if the policy proved a glaring failure, we must expect most obstinate perserverance in this method  And in a January 10, 1943, memorandum to Sir Archibald Sincla