acted to new ideas and new methods as he was to new mac hines—and he made a serious effort to pass this restless curiosity on to his sons. But unlike his own father, he wasn’t serious all the time. He loved to have fun with his family. He liked to get out and throw a football with Hank. He told the  boys outrageous stories, He joined their checker, ¢ hess, or card games.  Thomas M. Coffey * 148  Here was an encroachment Hap had to view seriously want a plane to crash because some mechanic had repaired its compliance with his father’s instructions. Unfortunately, the he had with his father about this issue caused a wound t led. Dr. Arnold, angry, depressed, and disappe A few mo  completely he: on a Greyhound bus and returned to Pennsylvania  on October 27, 1933, he died in Ardmore."*  Arnold’s unpopular sister Betty also dropped in occasion they were at March Field, and her visits were scarcely more than those of her father because Hap found it impossib seriously the subjects dearest to her—Arnold family histor concerns of the D.A.R. (Daughters of the American Revol She was skillful at findir insert Revolutionary War references into a conversation ab  which she was a devoted member  thing else. Let someone name a town in Pennsylvania and : name a battle there “where our brave boys put the Red Coats At this point, Arnold would say something like “Yes, indeec twelve thousand men and they had about four thousand.” He also took an irreverent view of family history, mu discomfort. Whenever she began talking about distinguished he would launch into stories about one great-uncle who bare! hanging as a horse thief, and another, a whisky taster for U Philadelphia, who worked too diligendy one day and kille when he fell off a ladder that was propped against a vat. What Betty most was his insistence that these stories were true. Her v  Arnolds were not long, but Bee, whose dislike of Betty never  would have been happier if she had made them even shorte1  The visitors Bee enjoye