rty-acre “spread” with an old house and barn in the beautiful Valley of the Moon near Sonoma, about forty-five miles north of San Francisco. Bee loved it and Hap expected to love it as soon as he could get to California to see it. He was planning a trip to the coast in early January but meanwhile, he needed to sit down someplace and rest. He decided on Florida for a few days after Christmas and Bee agreed to go with him. That was as good a Christmas present as the ranch. They sat in the sun together and got along the way they used to in the old days  Thomas M. Coffey * 332  It has been decided that an American will take over command of the Allied Air Force in the Mediterranean. , .. As a result of your long period of successful operations and the exceptional results of your endeavors as Commander of the Air Force in England, you have been recommended for this position  Eaker's shock at this totally unexpected news was followed by fury. Having accepted Arnold's impatient insistence on more action during all the months when his bombers were being diverted elsewhere and his pleas for long-range fighters were going unanswered, he couldn't conceive of the Eighth Air Force being taken from him now that his B-17 fleet was beginning to expand and the P-51s were arriving to defend it. On the nineteenth, he fired off a cable to Arnold that gave notice of his intention to fight for his job:  Believe war interest best served by my retention command 8th Air Force: otherwise experience this theater for nearly two years wasted. If I am to be allowed any personal preference, having started with the Eighth and seen it organized for major task in this theater it would be heart-breaking to leave just before climax. If my services satisfactory to se:  Air Force.  iors, request I be allowed to retain command 8th  He then sent similar cables to Eisenhower and Spaatz and inspired Gen. Jacob Devers, European theater commander at the time, to send one to Arnold, requesting that Eaker be ret