craft and  was now undergoing extensive testing. It was America’s first jet airplane. Arnold had also directed Gen. Grandison Gardner at the Eglin Field, Florida, proving grounds to build a prototype of an American version of the rocket-powered buzz bomb w ith which the Germans were terrorizing London.” And though he didn’t mention it to von Karman, he was aware that the United States at that moment was engaged in the development of an atomic weapon that, if completed on time, might be used against Japan. Never before had it been so evident that a small country with advanced technology could defeat a larger, wealthier country that had allowed itself to become complacent. “I want you to come to the Pentagon and gather a group of scientists who will work out a blueprint for air research for the next twenty, thirty, perhaps fifty years,” he told von Karman.  Arnold had always entertained ambivalent feelings about s« jentists. He didn't know their language, seemed never to be quite at ease in their presence, and enjoyed making fun of them. In a September 12, 1944, letter to Tooey Spaatz, he wrote: “T hese long-haired scientists have a  hard time getting together. They are about as jealous as Brigham Young’s seventeenth and eighteenth wives were, so that there is a lot of throat-cutting going on between the scientists in the various agencies connected with the War Department and other branches of the govern- ment.” But despite such remarks, Arnold never hesitated to call on scientists if he thought they might be useful to aviation His engagement  of von Karman began a science-oriented military era which would soon  revolutionize the Air Forces.  Thomas M. Coffey 350  the Bangkok and Yawata results were a fair indication, cither the radar-controlled bombing system or the crews using it needed improve- ment  In mid-August, Arnold suggested to Marshall that they sneak away from Washington together for a week of fishing in the high Sierras.** Since it was evident that both o