ruce, and David Lee Arnold, all three of whom have been wonderfully  generous, cooperative, and helpful to the author  Among the other people who have been exceptionally helpful are: Dr. Paul Heffner and C.F.W. Coker of the Library of Congress; Maj. Gen. John Huston, David Schoen, William Heimdahl, and Ms. Margaret Peters of the Office of Air Force History; Mrs. Elizabeth B, Mason of the Columbia University Oral History Research Office; Lloyd H. Cornett, Luther E. Lee, Mrs. Judy Endicott, and Pressley Bickerstaff of the Simpson Historical Re arch Center at the Air University; Col. Alfred Hurley, Lt. Col. Benjamin C. Glidden, Lt. Col. John Reynolds, Lt. Aaron Byerley, Donald Barrett, Duane Reed, and Robert Burke of the Air Force Academy; John Taylor, William Cunliffe, Gloria Wheeler, and James Hastings of the National Archives; Bruce Callander and John Hickerson of the Air Force Times; Dr. Noble Frankland of the Imperial War Museum; Jeffrey Ede of the British Public Records Office; Group Cap. Edward B. Haslam of the Air Historical Branch; Lt. Gen, John B. McPherson, Ret., and Col. James L. Cannell, Ret., of the Air Force  389  traditional ¢ From Barba present—a s of whom hac servicemen h War II—“Ki and made al Bruce ai with his hon proved to be On Chri bugle calls ir embarked o1 father might for Taps, Br A few Cape Canay Josephine Ti Tevis noticec collar hung After th aviation artic that he was faded, watct that Simmo! retirement ¢ had never le his health, tt their land. | many years events, and Through th It was a bewildered, am all days later, h  Sources 390)  Historical Foundation, which has given full and generous support to this project  Interviewed by the Author  Anderson, Gen, Samuel E., Ret., Aug. 31, 1978  Arnold, Col. David Lee, Ret,, Sept. 12, 1978; Jan. 27, 1979  Arnold, Col, Henry H., Jr., Ret., Sept. 28 & 29, 1978; } 1979  Arnold, Col, William Bruce, Ret., Oct. 13 & Noy. 18, 1978; Jan. 27, 1979  Beebe, Brig. Gen. Eugene, Ret., Aug. 14, 1978; Aug, 11, 19