virtually hustled General Craig into a car and drove him to Arnold's  office for what Arnold called “a get-rich-quick course in the clements  necessary to make an air fore Though they had both been working on Craig for some time, he had not been fully converted until that day. But the president had shaken him mightily and forced him to see the light. “He [Craig] was a very apt pupil and from then on until his tour was completed,” Arnold later recalled, “fought for our program.”  On September 29, 1938, the day after that crucial White House mecting, Arnold was named chief of the Air Corps. Perhaps he had done himself some good with his performance before the president. But the steadfast support of General Craig, who had fought for his appoint- ment despite their long-standing private disagreement about air power, and the relatively new but powerful support of Harry Hopkins, had not  hurt his cause.  Thomas M, Coffey 184  Secretary of the Navy Charles Edison, Secretary of the Treasury Henry neral Craig and his new deputy,  Morgenthau, and their assistants; G: George Marshall; Adm. Harold L, Stark, the Navy chief; Colonel Burns, acting as a War Department aide; Arnold as acting chief of the Air Corps; and perhaps most important of all, Harry Hopkins, who had met with Arnold several additional times since their first exchange of ideas.  Arnold was one of the few people in the room not surprised by what the president said that day. He and Hopkins had been saying much of it to each other during their meetings. And Hopkins had fully briefed him on the purpose of this meeting  Roosevelt began by saying he had read the War Department's report on a proposed expansion of the ground and air forces, and he wasn’t satisfied with it. A new Army post in Wyoming would not, in his opinion, scare Adolf Hitler one goddamned bit. What he wanted was airplanes. It was airplanes that would have an influence on Hitler  Edison, Stark, Woodring, and Craig were taken aback by this outburst but