or. And Lt. Col. Joseph McNarney was transferred to an Air Corps post on the West Coast."*  In March 1939, Andrews was relieved of his G.H.Q. Air Force command, thus losing his rank as a temporary major general and reverting to the rank of colonel. He was sent to San Antonio as air officer of the Eighth Corps Area. Shortly thereafter, the G.H.Q. Air Force fell into virtual disuse  Meanwhile, Westover and Arnold, working quietly within the es- tablishment, were making no more progress than Andrews and Knert  in the cause of long-range bombers. In a May 13, 1938, letter to the  assistant secretary of war, Arnold made a modest request for the de- velopment and procurement of an experimental pressurized-cabin bomber during fiscal 1939 and 1940. He got his answer on August 6 in a mem-  orandum from the adjutant general  No military requirement exists for the procurement of an experi mental Pressure Cabin Bomber in Fiscal Year 1939 or Fiscal Year 1940 of the size and type described Experimentation and development for F.Y.s 1939 and 1940 will be restricted to that class of aviation designed for the close support of ground troops and for the protection of that type of aircraft such as medium and light  aircraft, pursuit and other light aircraft  By that time, General Embick had already summarized for General Westover the General Staff's position on air power. National policy, he reminded Westover, focused on defense, not aggression. Defense of the seas beyond the coast was the Navy's function. The military superiority of large planes over small ones still had not been proved. Therefore, the Air Corps needed no plane larger than the B-17, and only a few of those, to reinforce Panama and Hawaii.'”  When the Arnolds came to Washington in 1936, they had rented a house at 103 Bradley Lane in Chevy Chase Hap’s days at the Munitions Building were long, and when he came home, tired and often irritable from his frustrating attempts to “do business,” as he called it, with the Navy, G