Field, was occasionally the target of that impatience and he didn’t like it. Arnold, he said, “came by my desk practically every morning to ask me about things. We were doing a lot of research, development and testing. It took time but he wanted it done now. And because of that characteristic, he sometimes had people going down unproductive paths, wasting their time and the  time of others.  Maj. Grandison Gardner, assistant commandant of the Air Corps Engineering School at Wright Field in those days, was an admirer of Arnold's, but sometimes had similar reservations about him. After the two men had a minor run-in about the delivery of a new airplane, Gardner said to a friend, “Arnold has a reputation for making quick decisions. If he wouldn't make them quite so quick, maybe he’d make more of them right.” Only time would tell whether his average was high enough to justify his hurry-up methods.  Arnold's two boys were now old enough to get into substantial mischief, and Hank, especially, had a penchant for inadvertent misad- venture. He and a friend were pursuing a hobby of saving insignias, which they cut out of the fabric fuselages of derelict, abandoned airplanes. One day they saw a National Guard insignia they didn’t have and proceeded to cut it away with their jackknives, only to find that the plane in which they had left a gaping hole was still operational. They immediately hid the insignia in a culvert and said nothing about it. When Arnold was told that someone had cut the insignia out of a National Guard plane, he was quite sure who had done it, because he was aware of Hank’s hobby. But he was also convinced Hank hadn't done it knowingly, and he was always quite tolerant of mischief, perhaps because he was so mischievous himself. He simply said to Hank, “Got any new insignia lately?”* And when the boy confessed, he made no fuss about it.  On another occasion, Hank was playing in the coc kpit of a derelict plane that was still parked on the flight line. Witho