rm America’s apparent allies. But they found the secretary of war, Harry H. Woodring, less than enthusiastic. Woodring was basically an isolationist. Morgenthau, determin d to circumvent  Woodring, had suggested to the president that the Treasury Department  might properly supervise the sale of arms to foreign nations since such a  sale would involve large exchanges of currency. Roosevelt, reluctant at  that moment to infuriate isolationists by replacing Woodring, had  acceded to Morgenthau’s suggestion.” The result had been a tug-of-war for planes between the War  Thomas M. Coffey * 8  bewildered people who filled the streets. After conferring with harried city officials, he called Arnold.  “What they need most,” field kitchens.”  aker said, “are more tents, blankets, and  Already the Navy and the California National Guard had swung into action, providing men, equipment, and food. Marines and sailors were patrolling the Long Beach streets, While Fort MacArthur had sent no equipment, perhaps because no one there considered himself au- thorized to expend government property, the base had sent fifty enlisted men and seven officers to the Long Beach Armory for relief duty."  Arnold, at March Field, didn’t concern himself with authorization to expend government property. He simply organized a convoy of trucks, backed them up to the quartermaster depot, and loaded them with food, Army field kitchens, tents, blankets, anything that might be useful. One of his staff officers, familiar with Army regulations, and seeing the kitchens on the truck, said to him, “You can't send those things down there. I’s not your job.” It was the responsibility, he pointed out, of the commanding officer at Fort MacArthur  “To hell with that,” Arnold said. “Those people need food."”” Before the night was over, the trucks were on their way to Long Beach  As the days passed and Long Beach began to recover, the need for help from the armed services diminished. Arnold was able to discontin- ue his