eard upstairs, “It’s Gene!”  Arnold shouted back, “Come up here.’  Beebe found him still in bed. “I guess I had an attack of some kind,” he admitted.  Beebe, who had been in the Orient when the earlier attacks occurred, may not have known, since Arnold was so secretive about his health, that he had suffered three coronaries, and that this was probably another. “What do you want to do about it?" he asked.  339 * HAP  ‘There can be no doubt that Arnold knew what was wrong, After a man has had three heart attacks, he recognizes the fourth one, And after Lying in bed with it for three days, be had apparent decided at last that he needed help, even if the disclosure of his condition did end up costing him his job, “I want to do something to get over ihe sad  On Sunday, the twenty-first, Arnold flew again to Coral Gables, with Beebe and Bruce Simmons. Claiming he fet perfectly all right, he refused to sit in the rear of his comfortable, upholstered C-47, He took his usual place in the copilot’ seat. To Simmons, he appeared healthy, but when they reached Coral Gables, Col. Gilbert Marquardt, the physician in charge there, placed him immediately under intense care, with nurses around him twenty-four hours a day, For nine days, wat Bee's arival from California on the thirtieth, only Beebe and the hospital staff were allowed toe him, He was more severely stricken ths time than ever before.  Beebe felt that for the fist few days, Ammold was shocked and frightened by the reaction ofthe doctors o hi illness. Unimpr eased by his protestations of good health, they made it dear to him that his condition was serious, He was also afraid that Marshall, lanning he had suffered sil another attack, woud finaly become impatient and choose  someone to replace him, But Beebe, after talking to Marshal, was able to med t0  assure him no such thing was inthe wind. This news in itself help him relax  When Bee arrived, she occupied the room Beebe had been using, adjacent to her husband's room. S