d’s words, “bombed them with food.” They had devised a dead-drop method that would still be useful many years later during the Berlin airlift  Arnold's daily concerns at March Field were organization, training, and practice, and the development of new skills and techniques in military flying. His squadrons and wings staged one mission after another, many of them at night, trying to figure out what the flying conditions would be if there were another war, then simulating those conditions and inventing strategies or tactics to cope with them as best they could with the equipment they had. The bomb squadrons would conduct a mock bombardment raid and the fighter squadrons, taking off from other West Coast fields, would try to intercept them. All of this was done on the basis of calculated speculation. Everyone knew the aerial tactics in any future war would be unlike those in the Great War, but no one had formulated a tactical or strategic doctrine for future operations. Arnold, like everyone else in the Air Corps at this time, was groping  toward such doctrines  Dissatisfied with the mock bomb raids and fighter pursuits he was  Ki HAP  staging, he decided he needed a real bomb range and aerial gunnery  the Muroc Dry Lake area, One trip to the  range. In the Mojave Desert, northeast of Palmdale, he found the id location for such a range  fourteen-by-seven-mile dry lake convinced him that its bed would be “about the best and smoothest landing field imaginable.” The soil was fine clay, its surface hard and “smooth as glass.” Staking out a nineteen- by-nine-mile unpopulated tract, he began searching tides and found that the government owned part of it, the Southern Pacific Railroad owned part of it, and the state of California owned the rest. Since it was cheap desert land, he assumed it would be easy to arrange for the government to buy all of it. Actually, he didn’t succeed in that project until 1939, but in the meantime, he didn’t wait for legal niceties before using it