ared before the panel of judges, he admitted he was still very tired,  physical exhaustion and nervousness. hour later, when he  especially in the muscles of his arms  =ven though he was unable to pinpoint the location of the troops, there was no doubt that he had found them since the troops had seen him fly over their heads. For the first time in history, an airplane had proven its usefulness as a reconnaissance vehicle under operational conditions. The judges were so impressed they recommended Arnold for the highest honor he had yet received during his military career, the 1912 Mackay Trophy. It was the first Mackay Trophy ever awarded.  He had won it, however, at an incalculable cost to himself. He had always been aware of the element of risk in flying. Each time another flier crashed, his awareness of risk intensified. After he himself crashed into the Atlantic three months earlier, that awareness had become a constant burden to him, and the difficulty of completing the trophy competition flight added to the burden. Milling, a man of unquestion- able courage, had turned back after eleven minutes in that turbulent air Arnold had refused to turn back, and he could take satisfaction from this, especially when he faced the feeling from some quarters that Milling was the better pilot. But in completing the course, he had also intensified the nervous strain under which he was now living every day, and he could not help wondering how long he could continue to risk his life in these frail, capricious machines before reaching his limits.  Even the War Department seemed now to be impressed by the potential of the airplane, at least as a reconnaissance vehicle. Though the General Staff was still unable to envision it as an offensive weapon, a few of the top commanders, perhaps under the influence of young Captain Mitchell, were beginning to see that it was more than a toy Cognizant of Arnold's trophy-winning feat but not of the nervous strain under which he and Milling wer