taff what it should be? ... Let me have your frank reactions to the above  On May 1, Andrews answered Arnold, agreeing with him that both Bomber and Fighter Command should be more aggressive, but reserving judgment on what should be done about it. Unfortunately, this was the last letter Arnold would ever receive from his old friend and long-time rival for American air leadership. On May 10, Andrews was killed during a flight from England to Iceland when his plane « rashed against  feeding you, taking 1 giving you a bath. vod pressure hardly  for fishing, resting, was hastened by the ihe and her brother, ved as “a swell trip.” ful and we got our  o make him heed raduation. Marshall vuce, was one of the e had accomplished ‘mony. He and Bee ered the commence- er, Bruce had been lreams. His eyesight signed to the Anti-  h Carolina.  vorrisome to Arnold tobert Lovett flew to e able to help Eaker. ed to such an extent rtter to Arnold, “this rew availability went because the five new ire off this afternoon short, easy one to St. ecoming daily more ) meet the American ne time the need for one thing to accept st  ite another to pe  The B-17s, despite uldn’t fully protect fighters. Eaker had 1e began asking for 5 letter to Arnold he  Thomas M. Coffey * 312  All Air Corps officers saw in him the leader among the Air Force generals who  an Icelandic mountain. Later, Arnold was to say of Andrews,  might become one of the outstanding combat commanders in the war.”  On the day Andrews died, however, Arnold had problems of his own. While preparing for the Trident conference between Roosevelt and Churchill, scheduled to begin the next day in Washington, he suffered another heart attack and was rushed to Walter Reed. Once again the doctors had difficulty keeping him inactive. He wrote a note to George Marshall that very night. But at least he was willing to admit now that something was wrong with him. “This is one hell of a time for this to happen. My engine started turning over at 1