a’s newest and largest battle- ship, suddenly received from an escorting destroyer a very real torpedo alarm  “The whole character of the maneuver changed instantly,” Arnold noticed. “We began to zigzag. All ships started to zigzag. More com- mands from everywhere. Whistles, flags, code signals. The din aboard the ship was terrific. The wake of the torpedo became quite clear. A    oe  327 HAP  United States to learn how to fly and maintain them. Or, barring that,  Americans could be sent with the planes to teach his men in Russia  27 * HAP  United States to learn how to fly and maintain them. Or, barring that, Americans could be sent with the planes to teach his men in Russia. Stalin said some such thing should be arranged, but in the event, it never was. Stalin did not encourage familiarity between Russians and non- Russians.  Though Arnold didn’t like Stalin's methods or his political views, he was quickly impressed by the man’s fearlessness, brilliance, ruthlessness, and rapid repartee. Stalin was “half-humorous, half-scathing” in his remarks to and about the British. Atone point, when he made one of his typical remarks,  ‘I know sixty thousand German officers I'm going to shoot,” Churchill became so agitated he paced the floor for several minutes, preaching about Christianity and civilization. It was against the laws of civilized warfare, he insisted, to shoot sixty thousand officers. Stalin waited patiently until he finished, then said again through his interpreter, “I know sixty thousand German officers I'm going to shoot  when the war is over.”  On the question of invading the continent, the Americans received strong support from Stalin. He dismissed with contempt Churchill's argument that an enlargement of the eastern Mediterranean front would be a great help to Russia. What was needed, he said, was the invasion of northern France (code-named Overlord), with a smaller, diversionary landing in southern France."  Whether the British liked it or not, the Americ