ed, rather forgetfully, “the second time I was ever ina  hospital in my life “Had I realized what a pleasant experience it would be,” he wrote to Beebe, “[I] would have spent more time [in hospitals] in the past. It's no  * HAP  punishment to have a bunch of good-looking gals feeding you, taking your TPR [temperature, pulse, and respiration] and giving you a bath. By the time I'd been there three or four days my blood pressure hardly raised more than 100 points per bath.”  After ten days at Walter Reed, Arnold was ready for fishing, resting, and recuperation in Oregon—a recuperation that was hastened by the fact that he and Bee were now getting along better. She and her brother, Hank Pool, went along for what Arnold later described as “a swell trip.” The fishing was good. “The red sides were plentiful and we got our share of them.”  The fishing wasn’t good enough, though, to make him heed Marshall's advice about skipping the West Point graduation. Marshall may not have realized that Arnold's middle son, Bruce, was one of the graduates. Arnold was now so proud of what Bruce had accomplished after a shaky start that he refused to miss the ceremony. He and Bee were at West Point the first day of June and he delivered the commence- ment address. As was the case with Hank, however, Bruce had been unable to fulfill one of his father’s most cherished dreams. His eyesight disqualified him from flight training. He was assigned to the Anti- Aircraft Artillery and posted to Camp Davis, North Carolina.  The Eighth Air Force situation had become so worrisome to Arnold that three days after his heart attack, on May 13, Robert Lovett flew to London to find out how Washington might better be able to help Eaker. The problem of supplying bombers had been relieved to such an extent that on the day he arrived, Eaker had written in a letter to Arnold, “this is a great day for the 8th Air Force. Our Combat crew availability went up in a straight line today from 100 to 215. That is becaus