ult!” he cried, and forgetting the  bricklayer, he began cussing Simmons, He never did admit his blame,  but Simmons took the bricklayer’s name and Bee sent the man a check to cover the damage  Such incidents at least brought back a bit of his old spark, but they were not frequent. In the fall of 1946, Gov. Earl Warren appointed him a California fish and game commissioner, which pleased him but hardly kept him busy. Since he couldn't keep up with Simmons in serious work projects, he would sit in  he sun and gaze at the far-off hills. Or he would write letters. He kept up his correspondence with old associates like Bob Lovett, who was back with the Wall Street brokerage house of Brown Brothers Harriman; and George Marshall, who was in China until the end of 1946, then in Washington as secretary of state. “It is a great relief not to be burdened with War Department responsibilities,” Marshall  wrote, “but my troubles have merely been transferred to another issue  and other surroundings while you fish and shoot, dammit.”  Arnold did fish and shoot on occasion, but he lacked the stamina to do it often. He traveled in  quently now. At home he puttered in his woodworking shop, where he had made the redwood furniture for the patio. He watched his livestock grow—a flock of chickens, several ornery geese, which chased people out of the yard, a few white-faced Hereford calves, which Simmons was fattening. And when his papers and docu-  ments arrived from Washington (through Hamilton  ld, where the Air Forces still maintained an office for him), he got to work on his memoirs To this project he devoted himself seriously. Several friends had told him he could make a lot of money by publishing the story of his wartime experiences, and he badly needed money. He was worried about leaving  his wife destitute. He was well aware that when he died, his pension  381 * HAP  would stop, and thereafter she would receive only a token monthly sum And the proceeds of his insurance policies wo