hers with us have been taken prisoners? What are the best shoes to wear in hiking through the jungle?”  Meanwhile, Peterson had gone into a square search pattern. Bissell's pilot was not very confident of this expedient. Glancing at the altimeter,  Thomas M. Coffey * 298  Eisenhower as theater commander in England.) And on the nineteenth, Arnold himself had lunch with Churchill, impressing upon him the contention that the big American bombers, with long-range fighter escort, could protect themselves against the Germans. After all this, Churchill must have been exhausted by the argument. Finally he promised he would “say nothing more about it.” C hurchill’s surrender was incorporated into a policy paper called the “Combined [day and night] Bomber Offensive.” The American airmen had survived their most serious challenge from the British. They had only to prove they  could survive the coming challenge from the Germans  The Casablanca conference ended on January 23 and Arnold, with Clair Peterson at the controls, flew to Algiers the next day, en route to China. He had in his pocket a letter of introduction from President Roosevelt to Chiang Kai-shek explaining the purpose of the trip. Roosevelt wanted Arnold and Chiang to work out ways of transporting more supplies into China, and more planes for Gen. Claire Chennault’s air force, “in order that you may carry the offensive to the Japanese at  once.” He also wanted Chiang’s assurance that the Chinese army would take part in a campaign to drive the Japanese out of Burma—a campaign agreed upon in principle at Casablanca.  All of this sounded simple enough, but Arnold knew it was not. Chiang was a harder man to pin down than Churchill, and even when he was pinned, no one could be sure what he was pinned to. In addition, only one of the American military men in China, General Chennault, was able to get along with him. Chennault was an operational genius but not very interested in logistics. The American Army commander in Chi