ok, while she was out there, for a place they might be able to afford. In Cairo, on December 4, he received a cable from her announcing that she had bought “a ranch.” In his diary that day, he had written with evident elation, “I own a ranch.”  He was still elated when he announced to Hank, “I own a ranch.” But unfortunately he couldn't describe it. The only thing he knew about it was that he owned it—he and whatever bank Bee had found to carry the mortgage  Though Hank had expected to have just time enough with his father to say hello and goodbye, General Arnold planned to stay a few days and he had arranged temporary duty for Hank as his aide. They drove through the bombed-out city of Foggia to the house Spaatz occupied when he was there—another large, sumptuous establishment. This one had been the home of a prominent Fascist who quickly absented himself just before the capture of Foggia by the British. Spaatz, who knew how to live graciously, provided an excellent dinner and so much liquor that before the evening was over, he and Hank were trading uncomplimentary observations about the ground forces and the air forces, The usually silent Spaatz said, “We don't need the Army to  win this war. All we need you for is to capture air fields. You wouldn't  even get your mail if it weren't for the Air Force  Though the needling started lightheartedly, it became heated as the hours passed. Hank told Spaatz in no uncertain terms what he thought of the Air Forces and by the time they went to bed they were not amused by each other  Arnold, however, was evidently quite amused. At breakfast the next  morning he asked Hank, “How do you fee “Lousy.”  “I thought you might feel better,”  = said, “after getting all that off your chest.”  While Arnold was in Italy, Mark Clark invited him and his entou- rage to visit the front. The procession of cars and jeeps stopped near the foot of Monte Cassino; then Clark led the party, mostly generals, up an open road, bringing them even close