r, Claire L. Chennault, Robert Olds, Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., Donald Wilson, Laurence S$. Kuter and others—who had been influenced themselves by such European air strategists as Guilio Douhet of France and Lord Hugh Trenchard of England.‘ But some of these men were misled, at that time, by the technology available to them. The fastest fighter plane they knew, the P-26, had an airspeed of only 220 miles per hour. The B-17, which was undergoing tests, was expected to fly at 250 miles per hour. This led many, though not all, Air Corps strategists to believe that the bombers of the future would be able to outrun the fighters and therefore would be able to fly their missions unes¢ orted. It was a belief that persisted too long and was destined to cause grief during World War II.  Arnold wrote in his memoirs after World War II:  Thomas M. Coffey 166  Force on March 9, 1935, ostensibly to give the Air Corps a fast striking  force, but actually to split the corps into two parts and lodge control of the striking force more firmly than ever in the hands of the Army aff  Under this new setup, the chief of the Air Corps, General Foulois,  General S:  would retain his position, but his main responsibility would be procure- ment and supply. The General Headquarters Air Force, commanded by Frank Andrews, who became a temporary major general for the purpose, would control a force of fighter and bomber groups but would have no procurement or supply authority. Andrews would take his orders directly from the Army General Staff, thus by-passing the chief of Air Corps, who would be in charge of an Air Corps with few planes. The only way Foulois would be able to exert any influence would be by failing to supply the needs of the G.H.Q. Air Force, thus keeping it on the ground. This separation of the two vital parts of the Air Corps so that neither had any control over the other was certain to cause lack of coordination, rivalry, envy, and friction between the two parts. Most Air Corps men