y airplanes as possible but strongly recommend that the answer to his request for P-38s be “No,” repeat, “no.”  On this trip to England Arnold saw for the first time with his own eyes what a beating the B-17s were taking. But he also saw, from aerial photographs taken not by the Eighth Air Force but by the British, what a beating these Fortresses were administering to German industry. Despite their losses, he decided they were indeed hurting Germany. And until such time as an invasion could be launched, they would continue to be the only American weapons hurting Germany. His faith in daylight bombing, though it may have been shaky when he arrived, was strength- ened now. Even the Schweinfurt raid, costly as it had been, seemed worthwhile to him when he studied the photographs of damage to the  ball-bearing factories. And when Portal spoke to him about the impor- tance of knocking out those factories completely, he decided the  Fortresses should go back to Schweinfurt without delay to finish the job they had begun  I know you'll get to it,” Arnold said to Eaker, “as soon as the weather permits.”*  He did not say, “as soon as I send you long-range fighters.” Arnold and Eaker agreed that the war wouldn't wait to be fought. They had to keep fighting it with whatever we apons were available. They didn’t dare  give the Germans time to rebuild and repair the damage already done to  their industries. But Arnold did concede now, more positively than ever  before, that long-range fighters were desperately needed. He had been somewhat late in coming fully to this realization. W riting about the P-51  323 « HAP  in his memoirs, he took upon himself some of the blame for its slow development. “That we did not have it sooner was the Air Forces’ own fault." But once he realized the need, he rushed the production of P-51s with his customary urgency.  (The P-51s did not arrive in England quickly enough, however, to alleviate the pain of the second Schweinfurt mission{ Within two wee