im. Besides it might discredit one picked up the idea. I could be accus looks like the old slicker is sitting pretty ;  Andrews, in a June 23 reply to this le view. “I have not been doing much thin higher organization of air power eXce that it cannot be developed under an org an adjunct of surface forces; even with a far seeing as Marshall at the head of progressive Marshall may be himself the  not ct  anged materially  “With reference to your dilemma influence you in any degree. Arnold is objective now is to get started. He is prot head it up. He is a much better politician t demonstrated when he sat back and let us wall and kept himself in the background initially has got to be a good politician.”  The June 20 reorganization of the  measure of autonomy, foreclosed the pos:    Thomas M. Coffey 258  The memo seemed to suggest that he could more easily spare the  lighter planes, but a conversation between Arnold in Washington and  Thomas M. Coffey 258  The memo seemed to suggest that he could more easily spare the lighter planes, but a conversation between Arnold in Washington and  General Marshall in Memphis the next day, September 25, illustrates  sharply that, even in late 1941, the Air Forces was still woefully short of more than heavy bombers.  Marshall was in Memphis observing the Army’s extensive summer war maneuvers. Arnold called him about a problem that had arisen in delivering dive bombers for the climax of the exercises, scheduled for November."*  Arnold began by reminding Marshall that there were only two dive bomber groups in the current maneuvers, one of which was supposed to go to the Philippines in early December, making it unavailable in November  “How many will you have in November?” Marshall asked.  “We have just the two groups  Marshall didn’t seem to grasp the problem. “With one short, how many will be left sked  “We'll just have that one group in the maneuvers.”  he  “And at the present time you have how many?”  “Two,”  “You have two of yours?”