gn engineers there, too.”  The next morning, after examining the plane, Giles said, “Take out the radio set behind the pilot and put in a hundred-gallon tank, Then open up the wings and put in bulletproof tanks the entire length.”  Though Kindelberger and his engineers didn’t believe the plane could take such a load, Giles, who had been an aircraft engineering  officer for most of his career, was convinced it could. “Put the tanks in as  soon as possible,” he said. “Then fill them with water and give the plane a thorough test.”  They did, and within a few weeks, the water-laden P-51 underwent and passed a series of tests that would eventually have a profound effect  on the course of the war in Europe.  In early April, Arnold had to face a question he had been dreading since the moment of his heart attack. In light of that episode, would he be allowed to continue on active duty? Army regulations said no. And  only the president, as commander in chief, had the power to override  309 « HAP  those regulations. Dr. Lee, who had taken up Arnold's case, was able to convince Stimson and Marshall that Arnold was strong enough to continue. But Stimson and Marshall, in addition to feeling a need for Arnold, both had further reasons to side with him. Stimson’s health had been delicate for some time, and Marshall had been walking around with a pronounced heart murmur for several years. (Dr. Lee Martin had once examined him and concluded he didn’t have long to live.)"*  Even with the blessing of Stimson and Marshall, Arnold needed Roosevelt's approval if he was to remain commanding general of the Air Forces. Dr. Lee made an appointment at the White House to argue for him, after Arnold gave him some advice about what to say.'*  The president listened to Lee's description of Arnold’s heart attack, his recovery, and his current condition, then said, “Hap works hard and he has to fly a lot. If he continues as commanding general, is it likely to endanger his life?”  Lee said, “Yes, Mr