all kinds of things without  Thomas M. Coffey * 116  I had when we were married, even though you do stick your curlers in my face at three a.m. I miss you dreadfully and more every day. If this keeps up I will hire [rooms in] the Willard [Hotel] and tell the creditors to go jump in the creek.”  Thanks to her extended illness, John’s illness and death, and his own drop in rank, Arnold was again strapped for money. And since he no longer held a command, as he had in San Diego, and therefore had no Army transportation available to him, he was forced to buy an automobile. It was a Nash, “with bumpers, motor meter, mirror, trunk on the back and everything.” Well, not quite everything. It had “no balloon tires or four wheel brakes,” But it carried a heavy load of debt. After arranging to finance it, he went off with his friend Maj. Jake ickel, whom he had first met in the Philippines, to celebrate. They played nine  holes on the municipal golf links at a cost of fifteen cents each.  A few days later, Arnold rented a row house at $710 Fulton Street and moved the family down from Ardmore. It was a small house and everyone hated it. Bee, who was still conscious of having grown up in graceful luxury as the town banker's daughter, would have like some- thing less modest, and the kids, too, found it confining.  Lois by this time had begun to develop an antipathy toward her mother that was worrisome because it seemed to exceed the bounds of childish petulance. One day, after Bee had taken her to the theater to see Madame Butterfly, she announced that she was no longer deceived by the family version of her birth. She knew now that her apparent mother was not her actual mother; her true mother was a Philippine chieftain’s daughter, a beautiful princess named Mara, who had saved the life of Hap Arnold (whom Lois quite significantly did not deny as her true father), nursed him back to health, and had become the mother of his child. Later, after a short period in the United States du