y to beat me.”  With the captain’s assurance, Arnold fired a gun and the race was on. The P-T boat got away so fast it seemed about to put the crash boat out of sight, Then the crash boat captain, having given the sailors a sense of fase security, began pouring on power. When he passed the P-T boat, it seemed to be standing still.  Arnold said to Simmons, “This fellow knows how to handle a boat.”  Simmons, who had been talking to the crew, said, “Yes, sir, he ought  to. He used to be a rum-runne  By early June, Arnold was impatient to get back to work. On the fifth, he learned that 98 Superforts had taken off from India on the first-ever B-29 mission, The 20th Bomber Command had been forced to stage the mission from India because there wasn't yet enough gasoline at the advance bases in China. The B-29s, with the help of the A.T.C,, were carrying their own gasoline into China over the Hump, and it was slow process. From India, the big bombers couldn't reach Japan, so rail yards in Japanese-held Bangkok were the target, Partly because the day was overcast, and partly because neither the airplanes nor the crews were 1s less than successful, Though the yards were  quite ready, the mission w able to drop bombs and only  Virtually undefended, only 77 planes were 18 of those bombs came close to their targets  It was nota reassuring start but Arnold was unwilling to pull back.  vearance of this odd- you get in here?” musical-comedy accent.  a wad of currency and  Get out!” when Arnold, in, laughing,**  m they were welcomed al country house at which isleep in the car during oes not go very well any  rtal, Spaatz, and seve:  iich he was ensconced, ‘en built by Henry VIII  was up at 7:30 the next s for a briefing on the sen expected. He found rom Ike’s staff that the » hot.” He had doubted  an air strength was still anes had tried to bomb of England before the Channel crossing, or to ngs. To Arnold this was tions had been effective. B-17s had knocked out long-range fighters, h