d up and headed for ordnance again.  In late 1933 Spaatz was transferred to the Washington office of Gen.  Benjamin Foulois, who was then Air Corps chief. On February 10, 1934,  Arnold and March Field when a messenger arrived and said Spaatz, in Washington,  ker were playing golf at a private course a few miles from  = v  C CHAP Ten 1D p)  a  A rnold and his pilots undertook one other relief mission while he  was at March Field, but for this one he received no criticism  During the winter of 1932-33, the blizzards were so heavy in New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, and Colorado that many remote Indian settle- ments in those states were stranded and threatened with starvation. When Arnold was asked if he could help these people, he had no idea how, but he said yes  He assigned a bombardment squadron, under Capt. Charles How- ard, to figure out a way to drop food from airplanes. It would be totally unfeasible to use parachutes, since in the windy mountains the packages might drift so far away from the target settlements that the Indians would be unable to get through the snowdrifts to recover them. Howard and his men finally devised a packet so well cushioned that, as one of them said, they could “drop a dozen eggs without breaking a damned one.” Arnold's pilots then located the settlements with the aid of Indian agents, and for several weeks, in Arnold’s words, “bombed them with food.” They had devised a dead-drop method that would still be useful many years later during the Berlin airlift  Arnold’s daily concerns at March Field were organization, training, and practice, and the development of new skills and techniques in military flying. His squadrons and wings staged one mission after another, many of them at night, trying to figure out what the flying conditions would be if there were another war, then simulating those conditions and inventing strategies or tactics to cope with them as best they could with the equipment they had. The bomb squadrons would conduct a mock bo