the plane go down, Arnold looked sheepishly at Knerr, »” Knerr  said to Arnold, but, of course, all three of them hurried to the crash site  while Royce turned completely away from him. “You go bail i  The pilot was unhurt. The plane was a mess. It had scooped up tons of greasy sand and debris, It looked as if it would never fly again. And with the tide rising to inundate it, there was a danger that it might soon disappear altogether.  The three men scurried around until they found some empty oil drums to fasten under the wings as floats, and when the tide came in, they got a fishing boat to tow it to the Anchorage dock, where it was lifted out of the water with a winch and put on a Hatcar. The Anchorage Fire Department hosed it clean; then the expedition’s mechanics, including Arnold's crew chief, Sgt. Henry Puzenski, went to work on it. The fuselage was suffering from dents in the nose and belly and these were hammered back into shape. The engines were hopelessly grimy, but Knerr had been wise enough to send ahead two spare engines and two sets of spare instruments, which were quickly installed. And when the other nine planes were ready for the return flight, so was this one.  On the way home they flew the 950 miles from Juneau to Seattle nonstop, thereby, in the words of the inscription on the Mackay Trophy, which Arnold won for the second time as a result of this feat, “linking the Territory of Alaska with the United States by air, without a stop on foreign territory, for the first time.” From Seattle they flew by way of Salt Lake City, Omaha, and Dayton, landing at Washington on the morning of August 20, 1934  It was a triumph for which Arnold received more credit than he deserved. For his leadership, he not only again won the Mackay Trophy, he also was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. The other men on the flight, for their participation, received no commendations at all, and they naturally resented this—especially Knerr, whose relations with Arnold were