7 groups to England, but these would hardly give Eaker enough bombers to launch the long-anticipated air offensive against Germany. On April 23, Eaker came to Washington for ten days at Arnold’s behest to present the Combined Bomber Offensive plan, also known as the Eaker Plan, to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. While Eaker was in Washington, Arnold, curiously, wrote a letter to Andrews, who, as the Army's European theater commander, was now Eaker’s boss. It was a restless, frustrated letter, criticizing the Eighth Air Force and its fighter and bomber commanders, but not Eaker, its overall commander. Since the letter attacked one man, Col. Newton Longfellow, the bomber commander, whom Eaker later defended, it could hardly have been inspired by Eaker, who in any case was not likely to inspire a letter criticizing his own command. The most likely explanation of the letter is that it arose out of Arnold's impatience, suddenly ignited by remarks he heard from staff members Ttwas also a plea for advice from Andrews, whose judgment Arnold had  always trusted almost as much as his own:  Lam rapidly coming to the conclusion that our bombing outfit in the Eighth Air Force is assuming a state of routine repetition of performance and perhaps finding many excuses and alibs for not going on missions, which with more aggressive leaders might be accomplished. . .. Information | receive from England is .. . that our fighter pilots are looking for excuses to go to the Savoy May this not be the result of having a leader who is not sufficiently aggressive? Has Monk Hunter lost his spirit—his dash? 1 know he isn't the Monk Hunter I used to know, He seems to be playing safe on most of his missions,  Is not the same thing true of the Bomber Command? Does it not lack an aggressive leader? Is the staff what it should be? ... Let me have your frank reactions to the above  On May 1, Andrews answered Arnold, agreeing with him that both Bomber and Fighter Command should be more aggressive, but rese