t under way, he received a frantic message from his sister, Betty, informing him that his father was so ill he might soon die. Knowing Betty and her eagerne  Sto s  him, he might have doubted the urgency, but he decided to go immediately to Cher- bourg by way of Paris and catch the first steamer for home. He left Eleanor Pool with a heavy heart, not only because he would miss her company, but also because, before they parted, she told him something that saddened and disappointed him. She was already engaged, to an- other man. Perhaps he had no right to be disappointed. After all, he  hardly knew her. Yet she had been in his mind for two years now, and  | 39 » HAP  ici Wends went to Belmont Park on Long Island for the first international wi i meet ever held in America. There he became conscious of the ‘wu (plane as something that might be more than a toy, and he began to whut How, with more than passing interest, the exploits of intrepid aviators irra) ke Alberto Santos-Dumont, Walter Brookins, Arch Hoxey, Grahame  a Vhite, Eugene Ely, and Charles Willard  dint «= Both the Wright brothers and Curtiss were now manufacturing pitt lanes, and each had teams of daredevil fliers at the show, competing Wild tith foreign fliers in the performance of figure eights, tight turns, dives, tui’ nd other marvels of what at that time was considered acrobatic flying. jail ¥o one did anything so daring as a loop, roll, or chandelle—in the jslitth ireraft of 1910, such maneuvers could not even be conceived. These ito! viators hadn't yet learned to cope with stalls and spins, Brookins, only sintulitineteen years old at the time, impressed Arnold by completing the initlé puickest 360-degree turn ever recor ded. Brookins also crashed that day but he walked away from the wreckage  jiivn his Wright “speedster itiinharmed, making the airplane look like a much less dangerous «  onveyance that it actually was. On that score, Arnold was not deluded. ulti Ine of his instructors at West Point, Th