h them a crew of I  expected and wk  men, and yet our results are far from what we everyone else expects  Three days after he wrote this memo, Arnold suffered his fourth serious coronary in less than two years. Though it is impossible to say whether there was any connection between this heart attack and his B-29 problems, it is apparent that he felt intensely and perhaps beyond reason his obligation to deliver on his B-29 promises.  When this attack hit him, Bee was in California, planning to attend a Los Angeles meeting of the National Association of Air Force Women. Arnold was planning a quiet dinner at their Fort Myer quarters with Harry Hopkins, and in Bee's absence, had asked Mary Streett to act as his hostess. But before Bruce Simmons left to get Mrs. Streett, Arnold had felt a sudden, sharp pain, so severe he could just barely manage to get over to the bed and lie down. When Simmons picked up Mrs, Streett, he announced that the general was sick again. She arrived to find him still in bed. While he seemed comfortable, she thought he looked frightened, even when he pounded his chest to show her how healthy he was. She stayed only ten minutes, feeling he should get some rest.*  Three days later, Gene Beebe, who had recently returned from China as a brigadier general, was called into Arnold’s office. Dave Grant, the Air Forces’ chief flight surgeon, was there with Suzy Adkins and they were both worried. Arnold hadn't come to work for three days, and when G  ant tried to visit him, he had refused to let the doctor into his quarters. He had told his orderly not to admit anyone. Would Beebe  please go over and find out what was wrong  When Beebe arrived, the orderly, afraid to disobey Arnold, tried to turn him away, but Beebe shouted through the door loud enough to be heard upstairs, “It’s Gene!”  Arnold shouted back, “Come up here.’  Beebe found him still in bed. “I guess I had an attack of some kind,” he admitted.  Beebe, who had been in the Orient when the earlie