l Reserves were called out. All the boats disap-  peared, the firing stopped, the search lights were turned off one by  one.  It seemed, as he described it, that the defense of Corregidor had prevailed against the invaders, but there was an ominous aspect to this maneuver that he didn’t mention in his leters, perhaps because he didn’t learn of it until later. While the Corregidor guns were repelling the enemy fleet, an enemy Field Artillery captain named Harrison Hall had moved several big guns “by hand and mule, up to the supposedly impassable ridge on the north side of the entrance to Manila Bay Hall set his batteries up and actually fired on Corregidor, getting hit its gun emplacements."’ Unfortunately, his accomplishment failed to Army until twenty-eight years later when the Japanese,  on  impress the U. playing for keeps, repeated it On his return to Bee at Fort McKinley, Arnold may very well have  Thomas M. Coffey * 80  dictating the order for “the attack that was to break through the defenders’ lines” and make the entire maneuver a success. Arnold had now watched Marshall in action for a few days and his view of the man had already changed: “Marshall still holds the job as main guy for this detachment and tells the colonels where to take their regiments and what to do with them. However, everyone agrees that he has the ability to handle the situation so there is no hard feeling.”*  On February 4, the maneuver was ended, and a few days later Arnold returned to Bee, who was well on the way to recovery. He was saddened to learn that the baby she had aborted would have been a boy, but he was delighted that Bee herself was as good as new. On February 10, they were able to follow a custom they had instituted the previous October—celebrating each monthly return of their wedding date.  Having watched George Marshall in action during the entire Batangas invasion maneuver, Arnold now entertained an awesome respect for him. “That man,” he said to Bee, “will one day be t