r. His only claim to leadership was his dubious distinction as  an organizer of thei  mous Black Hand and its frequent mischief, His  popul  ity with ouher cadets was a mark in his favor but nota sign of unusual ait, On the bass of his mitary record to date, the Army owl hardly regard him asa promising ofcer with the potential for one  lay assuring high command. On the other hand, there was no reason to  belive he would be an competent fier, While his accomplishments were minot, sO were the peccadiloes that had so often got him into trouble: And he had, at last, completed the rigorous couse at West Point. The Army hada place for ofcers lik him, but twas notin the elite high-idng Cavalry was in the mud-sloggng footsore Infantry.  Armold was no, however, in any mood to acep that place, So  voles and persue was his sense of outrage at being pase oer that  he managed to convince even his father that he had been treated  97  27 * HAP  unfairly, And his father was not the kind of man who would accept injustice without a fight, nor was he lacking in political influence. His friendship with Congressman Irving Wanger had helped get his son into West Point four years earlier. And he was also well acquainted with Pennsylvania's powerful Senator Boies Penrose, the tough, ruthless boss of the Republican machine that ran Philadelphia. Neither of these politicians would ignore the plea  of an offended father and highly respected doctor who had the ear of so many hundreds of Pennsylvania Dutch farmers.  Penrose and Wanger, both of whom happened to be at home when Dr. Arnold petitioned them, v  € so accommodating as to accompany the West Point graduate on the train to Washington in the hope of interceding personally for him with the Army's adjutant general. On the way, young Henry gave them such an earful of indignation that even he wondered later if they didn’t regr oblige my ex-Cavalry father.” After listening to him about as far as Havre de Grace, they exchanged glances, then per