thing to that stuff. If I could get the house now, I would beg, borrow or steal the time off and go up to Philadelphia and bring you down here tonight. Washington at best isa nightmare and without you it is H—I. I need you, want you, look forward to seeing you soon. I love you. Hence, prepare for the worst—a trip down here as soon as we can find a place to hang our hats. .  But the next day was September 10, their eleventh wedding anniversary, and like a lot of men who have been married that long, he forgot it. Undoubtedly he still loved her, as she loved him, but it would have been more than remarkable if their ardor had been as intense then as in those early days of marriage when they celebrated their wedding  date monthly,  Ina letter to her on the tenth, he began: “It has to be admitted that I overlooked this day, but it also must be admitted that I sent you a wire before I got back to the [Army and Navy] Club and found yours waiting for me. However, this d__— town will make me forget that | am human if I stay here long enough, I am glad to be able to report to you that I think you are a wonderful wife even though we have been married  cleven years today, I still have the same love and admiration for you that  ibstance, would \, psychiatry was $s today. So Lois mother as she nts continued to  most as much a ained extensive + studying—the ced Army mate- oon involved in as to rely on the manufacture of co this arrange- s convinced that rom an aircraft ¢ techniques or aces and other iary loss of time ued his case so , the notion of planes began to ears later when y and it was his  course and was : for Christmas, ad the two boys een at the other ris bushy white ‘could frighten fas so quiet, so it, even though me. She baked r them out of hich she bound rustrated by the he Pool house, f things without  Thomas M. Coffey * 116  I had when we were married, even though you do stick your curlers in my face at three a.m. I miss you dreadfully and more every day. If this kee