to the last of these thirteen B-17s, Arnold and Beebe retired for a short night’s sleep; the next morning they flew to Bakersfield, where they met Donald Douglas and his father. After a drive of several miles, they came to the ranch property of a friend of Douglas's who had given him permission to hunt there. Before noon, Beebe had shot his legal limit of quail but the others had not, so they returned to a house on the property in which the caretaker and his wife lived. The owner retained one section of this house, including a kitchen stocked with food and beer, for himself and his guests. While the hunting party ate lunch, they could hear voices on the caretaker’s radio through the wall but they thought nothing of it  Douglas, realizing his elderly father wasn't much of a walker, suggested that he stay at the house and wait for their return. “Why don't you play the radio to amuse yourself,” he said.  When the hunters returned, about three p.m., Douglas's father came running out to tell them Pearl Harbor had been attacked.  The caretaker, behind him, said, “I heard something about that while you-all were having lunch, but I didn't think you'd be interested.”  Beebe recalls that the immediate reaction to the news was stunned silence. Douglas recalls that Arnold finally broke the silence when he  looked off into the distance and said, “I've been trying to tell .  Roosevelt something like this was going to happen.”  They hurriedly threw their gear and their quail into the car and headed for the Bakersfield Airport. When they flew from there to March Field, they found their “old stamping ground” in total commo- tion and confusion. Arnold first called General Marshall, who suggested he fly to San Francisco and help prepare the Army commander there, Gen. John L. DeWitt, for the possibility of a sneak attack. After several more phone calls, and after putting March Field on a  war status,” he and Beebe again took off, just before dark, this time for San Francisco, then Wash