chief  administration, d and it was  infuriate his highest Though he was not fired, it  Was S€vera r is =f > ral months before the president again allowed him in the White  House.  Arnold was a man who seemed to seek out trouble  and to work best ader pr . under pressure. As a boy he had learned to ¢ ope  with the requirements  11 » HAP  of a father more demanding even than he himself would later become  Indeed it was because of his father’s expectations rather than his own that he accepted his appointment to the Military Academy. And once he was securely in the Army, where he no longer had to cope with his father's pressure, he began to supply his own, creating it for himself by his refusal to accept conventional military wisdom. He was headstrong, often tactless, scornful of slow, conservative Army methods, critical of superiors, single-mindedly relentless in pushing his own beliets, and impatient with those who failed to share his vision. Yet despite all this, he rose through the officer ranks as the years passed until, in September 1938, he became chief of the Air Corps. To the surprise of many military men, including Arnold himself, the Army establishment proved itself sufficiently flexible and tolerant of his independence to advance him to the top.  How did he manage to climb so high? He must have been doing something right. Even the more conservative Army generals, many of whom had been involved in restraining or chastising him from time to time, would concede that much. Though he might defy them, he was able to make them admire him. Though he sometimes ignored their discipline, he knew how to maintain discipline among those he com- manded, Tough, impatient, and exacting with the men who worked under him, he nevertheless managed to command their respect and even, to an amazing degree, their affection. Almost puritanically strict, he could also be boyish, fun-loving, and engaging. Single-minded and unswerving in his aims, he could be flexible in achieving them