ty chief of staff. Marshall's influence within the General Staff had increased quickly since his assignment to it the previous summer because the quiet force of his personality and the sharpness of his reasoning were difficult to resist. Impressed by Arnold’s arguments about air power, he was already telling his economy-minded General Staff colleagues that the B-12s and B-18s they had bought to save money would not be good enough to put up against planes then being built in Europe, that they would have to start buying B-17s despite their higher cost. How many B-17s? He didn’t know, and when he tried to find the data needed to make an estimate, he discovered that the General Staff had no such information.* So he called Arnold and together they worked out what Arnold described as “an entire air plan for the War Department,” a plan that, with refinements and modifi- cations, became the basis for setting World War II requirements.  The details of this plan were reflected in a report by Arnold to Assistant Secretary of War Louis Johnson on October 27, 1938, and a memorandum from Arnold to Tooey Spaatz (then e  <ecutive officer of the G.H.Q. Air Force’s 2nd Wing but soon to become Arnold's planning chief ), on November 17, 1938. The report to Johnson, which detailed the plans for expansion of the aircraft industry (Arnold had already gathered the company heads and told them what he expected), showed how completely the Air Corps chief had caught Roosevelt's fever. These plans envisioned “an ultimate production capacity of 40,000 airplanes  189 = HAP  per year. . . . 20,000 a year as the first objective." The maximum output of American factories at that time, Arnold said, was about 2,500 planes per year, working one shift per day. To increase that number he suggested not only enlargement of present plants and construction of new ones, but also the use of three shifts per day. The companies, most of which were on the West Coast, where labor was limited, would have to build s