r afield it might never be found. In an effort to make the method more precise, Milling and Arnold attached to each of their planes a stovepipe through which to drop the weighted card so it wouldn't be caught by the wing wires or bandied about by the prop wash.  The second possible method, one that Arnold intended to test, was the use of a “crude, one-way radio,” air-to-ground only, and with a range of no more than fifteen miles. Though there was already much talk about the potential military uses of radio, it was not yet considered very reliable. Ground-to-air messages would be sent up from the battery by panel code, but nobody knew whether Arnold and Milling would be able to read and decipher them while at the same time spotting the artillery bursts and maintaining control of their aircraft.  61 « HAP  Communication was not the most serious concern in the minds of Arnold and Milling as they prepared for the artillery-spotting test, however. They were more worried about the relatively new Wright C-model planes that they had sent to Kansas by freight train from College Park, and in which they planned to conduct their experiment. This model was a larger, military version of the Wright B, with a six-cylinder engine that developed about 55 horsepower and generated considerably more speed. The Wrights had begun building it during the winter of 1911-12 in response to the Army's call for a plane that could carry more weight. But similar as it was to the Wright B except in size, it was quite different in flying characteristics. Milling found that at top speed “the center of pressure would shift very quickly . . . which would pull it down into a stall.” While it had not yet killed anyone, it had already begun to develop a bad reputation.  Though it was Milling who had turned back during the trophy competition flight, he seemed to feel, perhaps because he had never experienced a crash, that he was better able than Arnold to cope with the dangers of flying such an unstable ma