e told the  Arnold further incentive to hasten their delivery, In a memo to C  President that this will be started on March 1, See that it is done.”  Unfortunately, the job hadn't been that simple. In November 1943, Arnold had tried to get war production schedules changed to give the B-29 “over-riding priority over all other aircraft,”* but the Navy stopped him at a November 9 meeting of the Joint Chiefs. Admiral King said he didn't want to delay the B-29 (the Navy had put in a request for some of them to use in submarine patrol) but he felt an overriding priority might retard other essential programs, including, presumably, some of his own. It was a reasonable argument  Arnold had then tried to hurry up the production line by the sheer force of his personality—his usual method—but that hadn't worked because, as he admitted in a November 12 memo to General Echols at Wright Field, “it is not priority in the strict sense of the word that is required to bring the engine production up to the aircraft production; it  is more a matter of adjustment of labor and management in the shops  There was some labor trouble in the factories, to be sure. And the kinds of skills needed to produce such a complex machine were in short supply. But the basic problems still resided in the machine itself. Every new airplane has bugs. This one had more than usual, first, because it was so big and had so many revolutionary features; second, because it was developed under wartime pressure and many of its component parts, which in peacetime would have been subjected separately to thorough testing, were now being tested on the airplane.  The result of all this was that in January 1944, ninety-seven B-29s had come off the assembly lines but only sixteen of them were flyable And the shortage of planes had delayed the training of their crews. Blondie Saunders, now back from the Pacific and promoted to brigadier  illP TeH 19  en the American entry into the war, Hap Arnold had been counting on the B