neuver, Arnold didn’t see much of it because he was summoned to Washington by General  craig, who was now the Army chief of staff  Unimpressed by Florida on his first trip there and chilled by its unusual forty-degree weather, Arnold didn’t mind the side trip to Washington until he found out why he had been summoned, Craig broke the news to him that as of December 28, he was to be assistant chief of the Air Corps under Gen. Oscar Westover, who had just been appointed chief to succeed Benny Foulois.  Once again Arnold astonished Craig. He protested that he didn’t want the job. He would rather go back to March Field, he said, and even give back his general's star, than return to Washington as a desk soldier.  Craig listened patiendy, perhaps with amusement since he knew Arnold well by this time, then told him to forget what he would rather do. Westover wanted him as his assistant and he, Craig, had already approved the appointment.  The matter may not have been decided quite so simply. Westover did admire Arnold, no doubt about that. Two years earlier after a visit to C note to Be  lifornia (Westover was then assistant chief), he wrote a thank-you Arnold in which he said, “March Field certainly made a wonderful showing in the Quarterly Test, and on each of my visits I have  been impressed by the fact that March Field has not alone a wonderful Commanding Officer and wife of a Commanding Officer, but also has acquired a way of doing things, both in the military and social way, as to  make it stand out comparatively among Air Corps stations A year later, Westover was instrumental in choosing Arnold to lead the 1934 Alaska flight, But Craig himself may have instigated Arnold’s selection as assistant chief, and he had two obvious reasons for doing so. First of all, he clearly admired Arnold and was as entertained as he was sometimes shocked by Arnold’s unorthodox methods. Since their original misun- derstanding about the Long Beach earthquake relief, they had become fast f