ference with him and Nimitz (who had flown in from Hawaii), Kenney, and Gen. Richard Sutherland (representing MacArthur), and Miff Harmon, representing his own South Pacific command. The meeting was devoted largely to general- ities, and Arnold emerged from it with several depressing conclusions The Navy's big drive in the Solomons was now considered “a limited offensive” to stop the Japanese from further advance. The Navy did not intend to help MacArthur any more than necessary, but the Navy and MacArthur agreed on one thing—the Pacific was the only important war theater  After listening to both sides, Arnold was more than ever convinced that there had to be unity of command in the Pacific. The Japanese, with fewer troops, were pushing the Americans around because the man in command of the Japanese could concentrate his forces at any point of attack without having to talk some other commander into helping him. But the prospects for a unified American command were dim because neither Nimitz nor MacArthur would accept it unless he were named supreme commander  When Arnold returned to Washington, he was greeted by two items of good news for a change. On October 1, the first U.S. jet plane, a fighter built by Bell Aircraft from the English plans he brought back in 1941, had successfully completed its maiden flight. Also, of more immediate interest, the first B-29 Superfortress had taken to the air September 21. Arnold was counting on the B-29 to be the weapon that would force Japan to surrender, But without a unified command in the Pacific, who would be in charge of the B-29 fleet when it was ready? And  what assurance was there that it wouldn't be fractured like the B-17 fleet,  wily Met  ingot hein dau ‘yok  “slimy ii tna aia i oi ge mu  a dei agin ante i belle i yaoi aco wll al ig lie nt  Aik lad jen i aly  so alee it wll  in anil iene  Anaya ini oun ld ce altar  ql eran stb sat ond  in ili bi  atl le ivi Twohilt in? atin, svc ap  a ant  ult be ria conto hui lens Ge