d 130 degrees, making the aircraft metal so hot the mechanics couldn't work on it. Much of the maintenance had to be done at night, which was when most of the rain fell  The heavy losses, due mostly to the mountains and the weather, had brought morale as low as Arnold had feared, and Smith realized something substantial would have to be done soon, Housing would have to be improved. And the two-engine C-47s and C-46s would have to be s. But that would take time. What Smith suggested immediately in messages back to Wes!.ington was the appoint-  replaced with four-engine C-  ment of a commander who would stay on the spot and even fly the route himself. He recommended Brig. Gen. Thomas Hardin, a pilot who once worked for him at American Airlines. Hardin took command March 15 and the tonnage went up immediately. At the end of 1943 it had been 12,000 monthly. By the summer of 1944 it was up to 23,000, and still climbing. He didn’t exactly cure all the morale problems—he couldn't cure the heat or the malaria, and he couldn't make the men who flew the Hump enjoy it—but he did manage to keep them so busy they didn’t quite realize how miserable they were  In late February, Arnold received separate letters from Stilwell and Stratemeyer in the China-Burma-India theater expressing doubts about the plan to bomb Japan with B-29s from bases in China. Arnold, in a February 28 memo to Gen. Hoyt Vandenberg of his staff, said, “Both of these letters are on the ‘can't be done’ side, and I am not ready to accept either one. I cannot see my way clear to send these B-29s out there to carry ona series of bombardment operations against Hongkong, Formo- sa, Indochina and Siam, as B-24s can perform these missions The B-29s are built for long-range missions and our plans should be prepared accordingly.”  Yet he himself was beginning to wonder at this time whether the B-29 would ever be able to do the job for which it was designed. “It is highly possible and maybe even probable,” he concluded in