m- mendation as I can give him.  At that time, General Patrick was still the chief of the Air Service and there was no indication that Arnold was about to leave Fort Riley, nor was there any indication that he wanted to leave. He was popular with everyone there except, perhaps, his own two sons. He liked to give airplane rides to the kids on the base, but for some reason Hank and Bruce did not understand and were disinclined to forgive, he never gave them a ride. He was also beginning to show, in his methods of disciplining them, that he hadn't abandoned or overcome all of his  father’s Victorian attitudes. At the end of each afternoon, whatever they  Thomas M. Coffey # 128  he couldn't do—he couldn't make the courtesy call that was expected of every newly arrived officer at the home of the commanding general. That was a duty to which neither Hap nor Bee looked forward  As they stepped up onto the porch of General Booth’s house they could see him, through the front window, playing cards with several other officers. The living room was full of people and the Arnolds were acutely uncomfortable as they entered, but when Booth saw who had arrived, he came forward immediately, shook Hap's hand, and put an arm around his shoulder.  “Arnold, I’m glad to see you,” he said. “I'm proud to have you in this command.” Then, in a voice loud enough for all of his guests to hear, he added: “I know why you're here, my boy. And as long as you're here you can write and say any damned thing you want. All I ask is that you let me see it first.”  The general had spoken and everyone at Fort Riley soon heard the echo. When the Arnolds went to the officers’ mess the next night (it took  a few days to set up housekeeping), a young captain came forward and  said, “We'd love to have you sit at our table.” Everyone treated them well. They were provided with horses and invited to join the Hunt Club. Suddenly Fort Riley didn’t look so bad after all  The squadron Arnold commanded was equipped with