ment  basically an isolationist Woodring, had suggested to the pr esident that the Tre:  might properly supervise the sale of arms to foreign nations since such a  sale would involve large exchanges of currency. Roosevelt, reluctant at ts by replacing Woodring, had  that moment to infuriate isolatior  acceded to Morgenthau’s suggestion.*! The result had been a tug-of-war for planes between the War  bewildered people city officials, he cal “What they ne field kitchens.” Already the N into action, provid were patrolling the no equipment, pe! thorized to expend men and seven offi Arnold, at Mar expend governmer backed them up to Army field kitchen of his staff officer kitchens on the tru there. It’s not your commanding office To hell with Before the night wi As the days pa: help from the arme ue his Air Corps co! to other work. But 1 Craig, at that time: included the entire inform him he wi court-martial—a_re quake.” This time | without the authori mander and the de  area.  March 1940— invasion of Poland War II, there was al occasional “wake-uy “impregnable” Mag Germans dug in be body, not even the  Thomas M, Coffey 10  Department and Arnold on one side, Morgenthau and our beleaguered European allies on the other, It was a struggle that had continued through 1939 and was reaching a peak when, on March 5, 1940, Arnold was called to testify at a secret meeting of the House Military Affairs Committ  * He was soon to realize that there is no such thing as a secret meeting of congressmen  Arnold told the committee, in confidence, that the Air Corps was paying too much for its airplanes. The cost of 2,100 planes ordered  during the corps’ expansion program, he said, had exceeded original estimates by §  0 million. This was due, he said, not only to a rise in cost of materials, but to the large orders placed with American aircraft companies by the British and French, The American companies, he indicated, were giving preference to the orders of the Allies because they didn’t w