k command of the 73rd Wing of what would soon become the Twentieth Air Force, and headed for Kansas to learn how to fly the Superfortress  Arnold found time in January to fly to California for his first look at  his ranch, and he liked what he saw. Lois drove up from San Francisco to inspect it with him, and he enjoyed that, too. He was still indulgent to his  daughter. Though he knew she drank too much, she usually managed to  Thomas M. Coffey 336  general (after a B-17 crash that almost took his life), was in charge of  training, and he had embarked on a plan to prepare 452 crews. But with so few B-29s in which to train anyone, he had managed to check out only sixty-seven first pilots by the beginning of 1944”  At the Cairo Conference, after Chiang Kai-shek agreed to build B-29 bases in time for their expected April 15 arrival (two months before they were scheduled to go into combat), Arnold thought he had at least taken care of that aspect of the operation. But on his return home, he learned from his own sources in China that Chiang, while acknowledging his promise, couldn’t get excited about the time clement involved, The days were passing and no one in China was recruiting coolies to work on the runways, which would have to be built entirely by  hand labor.* Someone would have to go over there and get things moving. The logical choice for the task was K. B. Wolfe, who now knew more about the needs of B-29s than anyone else. So Arnold sent him. But unfortunately, Wolfe was also needed in Kansas, where the new B-29s were being prepared for operations and the crews were being trained.  Arnold must have been getting tired of the very mention of B-29s when, one day in January, Rosie O'Donnell, now chief of Arnold's council, came in and told him he wanted to fly one of them. Arnold needed him in Washington and didn't want to let him go. O'Donnell had already had combat experience in the Philippines in the early days of the war, but he wanted more, and he was not afra