considered still in the development stage. As of early February, the entire 20th Bomber Command had flown a mere 9,000 hours in training, testing, and so  forth, and “only a negligible number of these hours had been flown over  20,000 feet, due to power plant limitations.”’* (The B-29 was supposed to be a high-altitude bomber.) And the fire-control system had not yet been fully tested in operation. As of March 1, 1944, even the “trained” crews had been able to fly only two-thirds of the B-29 hours required, and very few of them had received more than a fraction of the fire-control practice they would need. Only two aircraft so far were equipped with a complete central fire-control system.  Because the crews were being trained at several bases in Kansas, the modification program was centered there, which meant that a whole cadre of Air Force officers, plus representatives of Boeing and other companies now involved in B-29 production, were swarming over the state, trying to keep up with developments. The situation was chaotic and the Kansas winter was making it worse. The snow in many places was eighteen inches deep and temperatures were below zero. Mechanics were working on airplanes in unheated hangars or even on the run-  ways.!  * Tempers were boiling but hands were freezing  On March 8, Arnold dropped out of the sky from Washington and into the mess at a place called Pratt, Kansas. “I was appalled at what I found,” he later said. “There were shortages in all kinds and classes of equipment. The engines were not fitted with the latest gadgets; the planes were not ready to go. It would be impossible for them to be  anywhere near China by the 15th of April unless some drastic measures 4  were taken.  On the ninth, he flew to Salina and found the situation just as distressing. There he me  a Technical Service Command officer, Col. L. W. Stephenson, who had the misfortune of being in the wrong place at the right time. Would he please explain all these shortages?  Colon