ds, nearby and yet untouchable, height- ened his awareness of how little he had in his pocket. His San Francisco sojourn had left him so close to insolvency he would need the money saved during this month of enforced thrift aboard ship to pay for the uniforms when he got them  The combination of his lack and surfeit of funds prevented him from enjoying the ship’s one-and-a-half-day layover in Honolulu. He had heard so many stories about the likelihood that the Philippine money would be stolen before he could deliver it that he hardly dared let it out of his sight. And the eighty-degree Hawaiian temperature, reaching him through his winter O.D.s, stifled whatever pleasure he could hope to glean when he wasn’t worrying about the money  As the Buford, after leaving Honolulu, sailed closer and closer to the Equator, Arnold's woolen uniform, the only one he had to wear, became ‘a torture of hot scratchiness” to him and to those of his companions who had taken the same advice about buying their summer outfits in Manila. The ship docked in Manila on the night of December 6, but Arnold, convinced that robbers lay in wait to steal the Philippine government money if he left it, remained aboard until next morning, December 7, when he got his first glimpse of the city. It was little more than a glimpse. Within minutes after the big cash boxes were unloaded, they began to disappear  “On the strange, babbling pier,” he later recalled, “carabao carts, driven by the most villainous men I had ever seen, were waiting. Before I could finish my halting instructions in West Point Spanish, the first Filipino driver suddenly started away with about ten of the money boxes. I started to run after him, but looked back, and the other money chests were being driven off in apparently different directions.”* He was now in  such a jam he forgot all about the sweat soaking his winter uniform.  31 # HAP  In vain he chased after one cart, then another. Those water buffaloes were faster than he had i