t's reaction rushed into print in support of the Eighth Air Force: 5  This attack on Schweinfurt was not merely a spectacular air raid. It was an engagement between large armies—a major campaign Ina period ofa few hours we invaded German-held Europe to a depth of 500 miles, sacked and crippled one of her most vital enterprises  We did it in daylight and we did it with precision, aiming our explosives with the care and accuracy of a mar ksman firing a rifle at a bull’s-eye.  We moved in on a city of 50,000 people and destroyed the part of it that contributes to the enemy’s ability to wage war against us. When that part of it was a heap of twisted girders, smoking ruin and pulverized machinery, we handed it back, completely useless, to the  Germans. Ball-bearings cannot now pour from this ruin, and no moving machinery will operate without ball bearings.  It was a much more glowing description of the second Schweinfurt raid than the facts warranted. Though the ball-bearing plants had been badly damaged, they had not been rendered “completely useless.” And the Eighth Air Force was now in critical condition. On the fifteenth, Eaker again asked for long-range fighters—P-38s and Mustangs. On the twenty-ninth, Arnold informed him that all the P-38s and P-51s intend- ed for Africa and the Pacific were being diverted to England. Until they arrived, the Eighth Air Force would not be able to resume its offensive  against Germany.  On November 11, Arnold, along with Gens. Laurence Kuter, Haywood Hansell, and Rosie O'Donnell, joined Marshall, King, and their staffs, plus President Roosevelt and his staff, for a trip on the where they were to confer once more with Chiang Kai-shek would also be there, to  battleship Jowa to Cairo Churchill and his staff represent China. After these three powers finished their deliberations, everyone would move on to Tehran for a four-power conference with  alin, whom the American press now referred  Russia's dictator, Joseph to as the “president” o