ship Washington was sunk by torpedoes, mines and fourteen-inch guns, and accordingly, an airplane as an offensive weapon against battleships is ineffective.” Arnold asked Gott “as a friend  After insisting that this was not true, of the Air Service [more important, one of its contractors, though Arnold didn’t mention that] and as a true citizen of Seattle to correct his mis-statement.” It was utterly ridiculous, he insisted, to suggest that a  battleship could survive an air attack. “The Air Service has claimed, still  119  Thomas M. Coffey * 118  being caught,” and was filled with music, laughter, good cheer, friendly, drinking adults, and a gigantic Christmas tree lit by real candles.  The constraint between the families and the somber mood in his father’s house affected Hap as much as the boys since he, too, liked to laugh and sing and had almost as much of the boy in him as they did. He could take only so much of his father without exploding Fortunately, he and the boys were able to get away from the Arnold house and go to the Pools for Christmas Eve, and the next morning all was right with the world because Santa Claus had brought each of the kids—except  Hap—a Flexible Flyer sled  Back in Washington, in early January, he was surprised to find himself stationed in General Patrick’s office as chief of Air Service information. Again he didn't know whether Patrick, the Air Service Chief, or Billy Mitchell, his deputy, was responsible for giving him the assignment. But he knew which man he'd be working hardest to help. Arnold was now ready to go all the way with Mitchell in his struggle for  air power  —,  G CiltlP TEN § ))  AZ nold began his new job as the Air Service public information chief at a time when a new airplane-battleship controversy was explod- ing in the press, and he wasted no time leaping into it. In late 1924, the Navy had held secret bombing tests on the battleship Washington, a modern vessel that had to be scrapped by international agreement unde