ff was always agitating about that. And the less [rank they had] the more they were busy talking about a separate air corps,”**  Marshall kept urging Arnold to reach below his “antique staff officers and passé fliers” for promising, aggressive young men who knew how to get things done. And Arnold was doing so as fast as he could. He already had his eye on Lauris Norstad, Emmett O'Donnell, Harold George, Orvil Anderson, Charles P. Cabell, and Laurence Kuter, but he didn’t feel he could raise them peremptorily over the heads of the older men on his staff. In the case of Kuter, who was still a major when the United States entered the war, Marshall disagreed. Marshall had gotten to know and admire Kuter when Arnold assigned the young officer to work on the General Staff  “Why don't you make that fellow a general?” Marshall suggested one day.  “I can't,” Arnold said. “I'd lose my whole staff.”  Marshall waited until the January 1942 list was being prepared and added Kuter’s name for promotion to lieutenant colonel Then he waited for the February list and added Kuter's name for promotion to brigadier general. Thus Kuter, still a major until the fifth of January, was a general on the second of February. Arnold was delighted because he shared Marshall’s admiration of Kuter, who was as diligent as he was resourceful. Arnold once told his son David that Kuter and Norstad were “the brains of the Air Force.” And since it was Marshall who had promoted Kuter, none of Arnold’s staff men could complain to him about it.  Marshall, however, wasn't yet satisfied with the work of the air staff One day two of its members went to Arnold with a plan to ease the menace in the Atlantic by securing the Azores. Arnold was  submarine sufficiently interested to ask Marshall to listen to it, and Marshall in turn  asked Kuter to attend. The two officers made their presentation, which called for the use  HAP  problems, What I want you two boys to do is to do my thinking for me—my long-range, blue-