suggested the prime minister interview this American airman. Beaverbrook also immediately granted Arnold's request for two Spitfires, two Hurricanes (both fighters), two Wellingtons (medium bombers), and two night fighters for American experts to study. And he cordially invited Arnold to see “everything the British had.” But most important from an air strategist's viewpoint, he told Arnold that the Germans had reduced British aircraft production by as much as one-third in some months by bombing their factories. And the Germans never used more than five hundred planes. Arnold, who envisioned the use of eight hundred or one thousand planes per raid became increasingly confident that American ait power, when fully realized, would have the capability of winning this war for the Allies On his third night, April 14, he was invited to a dinner given by  Australian Prime Minister Robert G. Menzies, which made him feel that as far as the British were concerned he was in the “big league.” At this dinner, in addition to Menzies, were Field Marshal Sir John Dill, chief of the Imperial Staff; Admiral Sir Dudley Pound, First Sea Lor: Portal  several members of the cabinet and of Parliament: and the new  America s merican ambassador, John G. Winant. Arnold was bombarded with  America, especially about its labor and production Situation and the prospects of the United St  questions about  ates’ entering the war  He was o} 1e was on his way back to the Dorchester after this dinner when he  was lo enveloped in the sound of wailing sirens. The guns barked, the  be “g 2ombs began to burst, and the fires began to erupt. He was experiencing  his first German air raid  I 4 : durrying to the hotel, he went up onto the roof with Quesada to  watch the atta > de 1€ attack and the defense. “The sound of the bursts came closer  and closer,” as h x : er,” as he described it, “and the sky grew red beyond the  ae burning. The German airplanes seemed conce nh » be concentrating on the center of Lon