M. Coffey * 60  sent them to Fort Riley, Kansas, for extensive reconnaissance maneu- vers, which would soon bring Arnold to the most grievous and disrup-  tive crisis he had yet been forced to face.  Ever since the invention of cannon shortly after the discovery of gunpowder in the fourteenth century, artillery commanders through- out the world had been plagued by their inability to aim these powerful weapons accurately. When a field piece was fired at close range against a fortress wall or a hillside, it was possible to see where a ball struck or a shell exploded, and, if it was off target, make corrections accordingly. But against an objective that was out of sight, or even in sight but several miles away, it was almost impossible to judge exactly where the projectile had landed and what corrections would be needed for the next salvo. To American artillery officers, therefore, the significance of Arnold’s re- connaissance flight was obvious: if one could spot enemy troops from the air, one could also spot other targets and help direct gunfire against them. But only if there was a means of communication between the airplane pilot and the battery commander.  Thus when Arnold and Milling reached Fort Riley in late October, having traveled from College Park in a four-wheel-drive truck that was the only ground vehicle currently assigned to the Air Service, the mission facing them was to prove not only that they could pinpoint a shell-burst from an airplane but that they could in some way tell the battery where—farther or nearer, left or right—to place the next shell.  There were two possible ways to solve this communication problem. The first and probably most reliable way was the one they had already used—dropping their messages on yellow cards weighted by iron nuts for a mounted messenger to pick up and take to the battery. This was not a very rapid method and it depended on an accurate drop; if the wind carried the message card too far afield it might never be found