ctive bor-ders and coasts. These defeats, however, were but one of three aspects of the gen- eral Axis defeat in 1943: not merely did Axis forces sustain a series ofmilitary reverses but the Axis leaderships were out-thought politicallyand strategically and their countries were outproduced industrially. In1943, the material weaknesses of the Axis powers, summarised simply Copyright 2008. Potomac Books. All rights reserved. May not be reproduced in any form without permission from the publisher, except fair uses permitted under U.S. or applicable copyright law.EBSCO Publishing : eBook Comprehensive Academic Collection (EBSCOhost) - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN AN: 388696 ; H. P. Willmott.; The Great Crusade : A New Complete History of the Second World War, Revised Edition Account: s2953473.main.ehost  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 2 --- 252 THE GREAT CRUSADE in a British cabinet paper that stated that an Allied victory was assured because Germany had factories and no resources and Japan had resourcesand no factories, were reflected in the simple fact that the United States,unlike Britain which had global presence but not the power to match,acquired in 1943 the unique capacity to wage global war. In 1943 theUnited States outproduced the  Axis powers, indeed the rest of the world combined, and in this year, in consultation with her three major allies, she settled the main details of the plan by which her power was to bebrought to bear against her enemies. Herein was the definition of therelationship between victory and supremacy in the Second World War. Inboth the European and Pacific wars the Allied victory was the product ofsupremacy: supremacy was not the product of victory. /ornament21 UNCONDITIONAL SURRENDER FORMULA The events of 1943 fall under five headings: the five Allied confer- ences that collectively established the framework for the prosecution of the European war and the war against Japan; the Allied success in m