le.pdf --- Page 30 --- 280 THE GREAT CRUSADE R.A.F . into unreserved support for an area bombing offensive. First, in June 1941 the R.A.F . began a series of daylight raids over the Pas de Calaisdesigned to force the Luftwaffe into a defensive battle that it would lose. In reality, the Luftwaffe had the option not to be thus drawn because none of the R.A.F . targets warranted its commitment, and on those occa-sions when it did fight the superiority of the defence was reaffirmed. Moreover, the R.A.F . found to its surprise that the Spitfire Mark V was outclassed by the new Messerschmitt Bf 109F . By September 1941 es-corted raids over northern France had obviously failed to make any im-pression upon the Luftwaffe while unescorted raids on French Atlantic ports had become prohibitively expensive with 10 per cent losses beingsustained. By September 1941, with the nights beginning to draw in, day- light operations clearly presented the R.A.F . with no credible alternative to a strategic bombing offensive. Second, in August 1941 the first scientific analysis of bombing op- erations became available as a result of bomb-bay cameras fitted to anumber of operational bombers. In a report submitted to the war cabinetit was estimated that 65 per cent of all bombers failed to come within five miles of their targets and those that did bombed anywhere within 75 square miles of the objective. The Butt Report was bitterly denounced bysections of the R.A.F . but it had obvious implications for Bomber Com-mand, and in the immediate aftermath of its submission the policy ofattacking communications targets was dropped: Portal, on 25 September,formally requested authorisation of a 4,000-strong bomber force which would end the war in six months by the methodical destruction of forty- three major German cities. Churchill dismissed this claim with the obser-vation that there was no good reason to assume that German moralewould prove more vulnerable to bombing than that of the British: he al