ht. For obvious reasons, however, the air staff hesitated to embrace conclusions that amounted to an admissionthat Bomber Command had been and was a failure but which neverthe less assigned the other services no role other than to watch it try to prove EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 29 --- 279 1943 AND THE ELEVENTH  PRINCIPLE  OF WAR that it was not. With no guarantee that area bombing could break Ger- man morale, and Portal for one was not wholly convinced that Germanmorale could be broken before Germany’s military defeat was a fact, thecommitment of Bomber Command to an offensive against German citiesand morale was a gamble with far-reaching implications for the Britishwar effort. The switch from the scalpel, however blunt, to the bludgeon would necessarily involve a massive expansion of Bomber Command. On the air staff’s calculations, Bomber Command would need a front-line strengthof 4,000 bombers to have any chance of success, and to raise such a force nofewer than 22,000 bombers would have to be built—17,000 in Britain—between July 1941 and July 1943. Leaving aside the obvious problem pre-sented by a two-year lead -time, to raise such a force would necessarily involve an emasculation of tactical air power and naval aviation plus thefurther diversion of resources to Bomber Command at the expense ofexisting military and naval priorities. In short, in spring 1941 a commit-ment to area bombing threatened to result in Bomber Command swal- lowing the rest of the R.A.F . and the army and navy being stunted to theextent that they would not be able to capitalise upon the success that area bombing achieved—in two years’ time, if indeed it was successful. These various issues were considered at different levels within the British high command during spring 1941 with the predictable resultthat issues were fudged. The 7 July directive th