s://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 22 --- 272 THE GREAT CRUSADE second half of 1943: thereafter the German defeat was assured and the only questions that remained to be answered were when, how and atwhat cost this defeat would be achieved. But the issue itself was resolvedbefore the strategic bombing offensive had registered any significant re-sults whatsoever, and the line of argument used to justify this offensive interms of ‘the decisive destruction of Germany’s capacity to continue the war . . . opened her to naval and military defeat’ is thoroughly menda- cious. Indeed, it is quite possible to argue that the Allied strategic airoffensive did not properly begin for a full year after Germany’s defeatwas guaranteed—not until the autumn of 1944—and that while it didpave the way for the final advances into the German heartland, whateversuccess the strategic air offensive achieved was dependent at least in part upon the favourable conditions created for this offensive by the suc- cessful advance of Allied armies in northwest Europe during the previ-ous summer. Despite an obvious inter-dependence of efforts and airpower’s contribution to its own success in terms of the Americans’ win-ning command of the air, Germany’s naval and military defeat opened herto defeat in the strategic bombing offensive, not the other way around. This third and last observation needs qualification in certain re- spects. The Allied air offensive pre-dated autumn 1944, and even in thecourse of 1943 acquired a significance and weight that had importantrepercussions on the German war economy. In 1943 the Allies attemptedto mount a sustained bombing campaign under highly unfavourable con-ditions and were defeated in their efforts, but the offensive nevertheless forced a diversion of German resources into air defence that had impor- tant if unquantifiable consequences on the conduct of the war. By theend of 1943 German air defence numbered a million flak tro