n Lübeck (28–29March), Rostock (23–24 April), Köln (30–31 May), Essen (1–2 June) andBremen (25–26 June). Lübeck and Rostock were attacked simply becausethey were medieval Hanse cities that would burn, while the Köln raidwas staged simply as the first thousand-bomber raid in history. In each ofthese three operations, plus those against Essen and Bremen which were mounted by more than 900 bombers, R.A.F .  Bomber Command sought to burn out city centres in order to demonstrate present capabilities andfuture intentions, and to provide the Allies with a series of propagandavictories at a time when their fortunes were at a particularly low ebb. Itssuccess in achieving these aims rendered the concept of strategic bomb-ing non-negotiable and also brought R.A.F . Bomber Command a measure of operational freedom relative to the air staff and indeed the British high command unmatched by any other branch or service. Yet in registeringsuch success R.A.F . Bomber Command found its area bombing policyopposed by an American air command wedded to the belief that daylightprecision bombing was the only means whereby a strategic air offensivecould be prosecuted to a successful conclusion. With the B-17 Flying Fortress and B-24 Liberator the A.A.F . had equipped itself with two heavy bombers that were supposedly capable of fighting their way to a targetin the face of fighter opposition, the American belief being that the for-midable defensive armament of concentrated bomber formations wouldprovide the means whereby control of the skies over German targetscould be secured. Events proved this concept flawed, and American bomber formations were subjected to prohibitive losses until such time, in the winter of 1944, that American fighter aircraft won control of Ger-man airspace in the hours of daylight. FALTERING OF R.A.F .–A.A.F .  OFFENSIVES In the differences between R.A.F .  and U.S.A.A.F .  bombing philoso- phies lay a possible basis for cooperation, and indeed the different EBSCOhost -