ht operations each resulted in the loss of more than half of the attack-ing force. On 18 December, in a raid that involved no real penetration ofGerman air space, radar-directed fighters accounted for twelve of the twenty-two Wellingtons sent against warships in the Jade Roads and at Wilhelmshaven. Daylight operations between September and December1939 cost R.A.F . Bomber Command thirty-one of the 163 aircraft thusdespatched. R.A.F .  PRIORITIES SET Before the war Bomber Command had calculated that 5 per cent losses represented the maximum that could be sustained without a de-cline of operational effectiveness.  After the 18 December raid its day-light operations were curtailed drastically and emphasis was placed uponnight operations. In the winter of 1939–1940 these consisted of drop-ping propaganda leaflets rather than high explosives on German cities, but in that losses during such missions to enemy action were very few and overall losses totalled only 2.8 per cent lay an obvious conclusionthat R.A.F . Bomber Command could not and did not ignore. When theGerman attack in the west began so, too, did Bomber Command’s nightoffensive against German cities.  The first British raid in a campaign thatwas to last almost five years was mounted on the night of 14–15 May 1940 against communications and military targets in the Ruhr. Involvement in the fighting in the Low Countries and northern France in May and June 1940 prevented Bomber Command from devel- oping strategic operations in these months, and in the summer weeksthat followed its main efforts were directed against aircraft and alu-minium factories in western Germany and shipping concentrated in Ger- man and Channel ports for the proposed invasion of southern England. EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 26 --- 276 THE GREAT CRUSADE These targets, set down in directives issued on 20 J