ited States in December 1941 placed the U.S.  Army Air Force in the same position relative to Ger-many and the prosecution of the European war as R.A.F . Bomber Com-mand since June 1940: without the means to undertake military operationsin Europe, the U.S.A.A.F . was the only means by which the Americanscould take the war in which they found themselves to Germany. Notuntil January 1943, however, did American heavy bombers raid Germany, and thereafter a full year was to elapse before American strategic air op- erations assumed real significance. It was to take the A.A.F . two full yearsfrom the time that the United States entered the war to accumulate thestrength necessary to undertake sustained offensive operations againstGermany, in large measure because after October 1942 the build-up ofthe 8th Air Force in Britain was checked by the ever-widening commit- ment in the Mediterranean theatre where the 9th and 15th Air Forces were used primarily in a tactical role. Indeed, such was the drain of theMediterranean theatre upon American resources earmarked for the Euro-pean war that throughout the first quarter of 1943 the 8th Air Forceaveraged no more than a front-line strength of seventy-four heavy bomb-ers, a number wholly inadequate for the conduct of a strategic offensive. 1942 thus proved to be a year in which the A.A.F .  set about the task of creating in Britain the infrastructure for its future operations againstGermany, and R.A.F .  Bomber Command was not dissimilarly placed.  Aftertwenty-two different directives in the previous twenty-nine months, the14 February 1942 area bombing directive committed R.A.F . Bomber Com-mand to a task that necessitated major changes of equipment, training and organisation in the course of the year.  Thus at a time when the first American heavy bomber formations arrived in Britain (1 July) and beganoperations against targets in France and the Low Countries on 17 August,R.A.F . Bomber Command was in the process of re-equipping with