jor German cities. Churchill dismissed this claim with the obser-vation that there was no good reason to assume that German moralewould prove more vulnerable to bombing than that of the British: he alsonoted that German defences were certain to improve and that BomberCommand’s prime requirement was greater accuracy, not greater num- bers. Churchill also suspected, rightly, that there was no sure and single way to victory over an industrialised enemy, but he had little alternativebut to admit that bombing remained ‘the most potent method of impair-ing the enemy at the present time. ’ On 6 October, five days after raids onKarlsruhe and Stuttgart resulted in Bomber Command inadvertently bomb-ing no fewer than twenty-nine German cities, Churchill endorsed the R.A.F .  argument in favour of area bombing, the final stage in this journey to an all-out offensive against German morale being reached as a result ofthe disastrously expensive raid on Berlin of 7–8 November. With 9 percent losses on this single raid, the air staff took the opportunity on thethirteenth to issue a new directive to Bomber Command restricting its operations in order to conserve its strength throughout the winter in readiness for a full-scale resumption of operations in the spring. The EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 31 --- 281 1943 AND THE ELEVENTH  PRINCIPLE  OF WAR directive authorising this renewal of the campaign, directed against Ger- man cities and morale, was issued on 14 February 1942, by which timeR.A.F . Bomber Command knew that it would not be alone in carrying theair war to Germany. /ornament21 AMERICAN BOMBING POLICY The Axis declaration of war upon the United States in December 1941 placed the U.S.  Army Air Force in the same position relative to Ger-many and the prosecution of the European war as R.A.F . Bomber Com-mand since June 1940: without the m