ican heavy bomber formations arrived in Britain (1 July) and beganoperations against targets in France and the Low Countries on 17 August,R.A.F . Bomber Command was in the process of re-equipping withHalifax and Lancaster heavy bombers, after August raising pathfinder forces in order to mark targets, and devising bomber stream tactics in order to swamp German fighter defences and to ensure saturation at- tacks. Until the spring of 1942 R.A.F .  Bomber Command’s attacks hadbeen conducted on an individual basis with aircraft having to find theirown ways to their targets,  hence the poor returns in terms of naviga-tion and accuracy registered by a force that suffered from inevitable EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 32 --- 282 THE GREAT CRUSADE problems of rapid expansion and dilution. The development of pathfinder formations and bomber stream tactics began the process whereby R.A.F .Bomber Command raised overall standards of accuracy by having specialistunits lead less well trained and inexperienced units to their targets. Thisprocess took time, however, and it was not until 1943 that R.A.F .  BomberCommand began to reap the benefits of these changes of tactics and organisation, yet in 1942 it was nevertheless able to record the achievements that established its reputation and ensured that it w ould be allowed to per- sist in its attempt to break German morale by area bombing — though 1942 also revealed fundamental differences between American and Britishbombing philosophies and between Allied air and military commanders. R.A.F . Bomber Command secured its own future after some thirty months of confusion and failure as a result of raids on Lübeck (28–29March), Rostock (23–24 April), Köln (30–31 May), Essen (1–2 June) andBremen (25–26 June). Lübeck and Rostock were attacked simply becausethey were medieval Hanse cities that would burn,