aylight. FALTERING OF R.A.F .–A.A.F .  OFFENSIVES In the differences between R.A.F .  and U.S.A.A.F .  bombing philoso- phies lay a possible basis for cooperation, and indeed the different EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 33 --- 283 1943 AND THE ELEVENTH  PRINCIPLE  OF WAR timings of British and American operations gave rise to the ‘bombing round the clock’ idea. This, however, remained little more than an impres-sive phrase because the two forces and philosophies were in fact rivalsand not complementary. In 1942 and 1943 the American air commandclung to its ideas of daylight precision bombing partly in order to pre-vent being reduced to an adjunct of R.A.F . Bomber Command and partly to ensure a distinctive American contribution to the European war: by 1944 and 1945 the situation had reversed itself in that R.A.F . BomberCommand was one of the very last areas of the British war effort notwholly dependent upon U.S. support. Throughout the war the Americanair commanders were acutely aware that a successful offensive wouldmake the case for an independent air force within the U.S. military estab- lishment irresistible, and on the part of both R.A.F . Bomber Command and the A.A.F . there was a natural desire to secure a victory that did nothave to be shared with the other. Given these differences there was rela-tively little basis for a coordination of the American and British efforts,and the extent of the divergence between the two allies and the fact that‘for most of 1943 there was no combined offensive but . . .  a bombing competition’ was reflected in the failure to devise a combined bombing directive until 10 June 1943, six months after the combined offensivehad been sanctioned at the Casablanca conference. Even after thePointblank directive was issued, however, both R.A.F . Bomber Commandand American air commanders regarded it as