major stumbling block. Moreover, few forces had any clearly defined doctrine for the employment of their charges, despite trials and battle manoeuvres involving aircraft in1913. The most important contribution to the maritime war made by air power was in the anti-submarine campaigns around the British Isles and in the eastern Atlantic. Although air power was to continue to develop in other areas, reconnaissance andgunnery direction for example, it was in combating the U-boat that maritime air forces played their most influential role in the Great War. The U-boat had already caused a good deal of consternation and soul searching in pre-World War I navies, largely because they were forcing a radical and generally unpalatable re-evaluation of the nature of modern naval warfare. The cornerstone of naval supremacy had always been the ship of the line, or the battleship. In order to beable to use the sea for operations, at least for any length of time, control of the surrounding waters had to be exercised by warships. The supreme embodiment of this was, by 1914, the big-gun battleship. If a power wanted to be taken seriously innaval terms it was measured by the number of modern battleships it could send to sea. The U-boat, and indeed ultimately the aircraft, threatened this status quo.  They both allowed a nation to project a potent form of maritime strength without having to build battleships, which was rather frustrating for the British and Germans, who had spent the previous 15 years or so in a ruinous naval arms race. For Britain in particular,the threat of the U-boat had to be taken seriously, because submarines could directly attack sea-borne trade routes on which the British economy, more than any other, was heavily dependent. The Germans were forced to concede by 1916, despite the tactical success of Jutland, that their expensive surface fleet, still heavily outnumbered as it was, was unable to tackle Britain’s Grand Fleet with any real chance of success, and thus