them and thus the policy of deterrence began to develop. Despite the claims of others, such as Edward  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 216 --- AIR POWER AND THE POST -WAR WORLD 205Earle,7 that strategic air power was now far too destructive and had to be negotiated into oblivion, Brodie argued that strategic atomic warfare had to be dealt with as a reality – it could not be “uninvented”. The eventual and expected emergence of the long-range missile equipped with a nuclear warhead would indeed compound theproblem still further. A variety of air force generals were espousing similar thinking, though they were initially unwilling to accept the replacement of manned bombers with pilotless missiles. 8 In the USAAF , General Hap Arnold and his successor, Carl Spaatz, both talked of swift surprise attacks from the air being the only conceivable threat to the USA itself, and that the best form of defence was to develop the capability to strike back at potentialenemies with equal or preferably greater force: in other words, atomic based strategic deterrence. Moreover, and like their pre-war forerunners, the arch advocates of air power again began claiming that air power had rendered land and maritime basedforces largely redundant. 9 As the USA wrestled concurrently with the problems of mass demobilization and the deterioration of East–West relations, so atomic based strategic thinking began to embed in the US armed forces’ theorizing or, more accurately,in the ideology of the newly created US Air Force (USAF – formed in 1947). However, such strategies were not incorporated into US strategy until the Cold War began to freeze with the blockade of Berlin and the outbreak of the Korean War. 10 Indeed, during the late 1940s US atomic capability was decidedly limited. In 1946, the stockpile of atomic bombs numbered nine and the assembling of more would take three days with yet more time required to transport them to the operationalbases. 11 Moreover, in early 1947 the US Stra