ront and, as was also the case in Austria–Hungary, theGermans suffered from bureaucratic wrangling and petty squabbling. Efforts by the military to control the situation did not help as they were preoccupied with aircraft technology and capabilities rather than the organization and standardization of theindustry, thus adding significantly to their supply problems. Indeed, any aircraft which met ministry requirements was adopted by the air force and consequently introduced into service. Once again, supply problems ensued as each aircraft type required itsown spare parts and logistical support structure. However, the most significant problem to confront the Germans was that of aero- engine production and development which was hindered by two poor decisionstaken by the aviation inspectorate, which curiously did not contain aero-engine experts. In 1914 it was decided that development of engines of over 150 hp would be suspended so as not to interfere with engine production, just at the time when the Allies werepressing ahead with such development. This strangled development and led to German aircraft manufacturers having to work with low-powered engines for much of the war. Secondly, in 1915 the inspectorate decided not to pursue the procurement of a Benz240 hp engine, later only to order 500–600 hp engines for the R-plane bombers. By the end of the war, Allied engines ranged from 300–450 hp types while the Germans were still labouring with 185–250 hp models. 61 Paradoxically, the decision to stick to tried and tested engine technology to keep up engine output succeeded in hindering technological innovation, whereas the lack of central planning and control in airframe development produced sophisticated aircraft designs, often superior to Allied models,but not in high enough quantities or with adequate support.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 76 --- THE FIRST WORLD WAR, 1914–18 65The complicated and non-standardized production techniques of the German aero-industri