heads carried expandedto a staggering 7,000, more than enough to destroy all Soviet cities many times over. 33 Wholly new strategies were developed to control or deploy such weapons of mass destruction. The US policy of massive retaliation was completely undermined by therise of Soviet strategic nuclear capability, and the consequent emergence of MAD was in essence a method of management, a tacit acceptance that nuclear weapons were no longer merely another weapon in the diplomatic war of international relations. Therewere concerns over the development of first strike capabilities and viable counter- measures were all viewed as potentially destabilizing effects, thus illustrating a crucial difference between the nuclear age and the age of conventional bomber deterrenceof the 1930s when such deterrence was far less credible. 34 Nevertheless, the finely balanced nuclear deterrence held, largely because the consequences of failure were unthinkable. The search for first strike capability (the strategy of wiping out theenemy’s nuclear strength in one surprise first attack) continually foundered because of technical failings and because of the basic underlying assumption that the risks of creating such a capability were too great. It was a tenet of nuclear strategy not to makeopponents believe that they were vulnerable to a first strike because it might prompt them into rash preventative action of their own. The power and fear of nuclear weapons was such that direct and hostile confrontation between two similarly equipped powerswas something to be avoided, and in this respect air power had reached its zenith in making mass war both unfeasible and unthinkable. Y et for all that supposed power, in reality strategic nuclear weapons played a largely peripheral role in the conduct and development of Cold War strategies. Little of advantage was ever gained out of the possession of nuclear weapons, other than theavoidance of suffering the disadvantage of not possessing them. Eve