he most significant weapon in this process. 11 There are perhaps two main themes to the wider implications of air power in the age of total war. First, air power clearly exhibits many of the aspects that Marwickindicated, and that we have come to regard, as illustrating total war – targeting civilians, bringing the war to the home front, the fear of air attack and the apocalyptic vision of air power that predated the fear of nuclear holocaust by a generation. Air power wastherefore a clear and direct cause of total war in a physically destructive sense. Secondly, air power was a measure of total war, for more than any other weapon the aircraft was a product of industrial warfare and the modern era. No other weapon required theeconomic investment and technological know-how required by modern war than aircraft. In many ways air war was the epitome of total war, an icon of a specific age in warfare and human civilization. The impact of air power on society was a crucial factor in the creation of the new style of war. As has been stated, aircraft provided the means with which to take war itself directly to the home front: to the civilian populations of the belligerent powers.The effects of war had been felt by non-combatants since human civilization had first emerged; through siege, blockade and occasional acts of genocide. But the aeroplane added a completely new dimension to this interaction. For many states, especiallythose in Europe which existed in close proximity to each other, the threat of direct attack on their cities from the air was a very real one. As Uri Bialer demonstrated, by the 1930s Europe was living in the shadow of the bomber. It was a new experiencefor the masses of the modern world to endure, and one that we of the nuclear age and its “four-minute warning” have come to accept and place at the back of our consciousness. 12 Even in the USA, far removed from most of this process until the advent of intercontinental ballistic missiles in the 1960s, the