he air campaign swung back and forth with ever larger concentrations of aircraft (French groupes de chasse  and German Jagdstaffeln ) being deployed. Ultimately, the French emerged victorious and German artillery fire became progressively less effective once their reconnaissance aircraft werebeing driven from French airspace on all but rare occasions. As Lee Kennett has argued, the Verdun air campaign was the first to demonstrate the value of winning air superiority, or at least of denying it to the enemy, and of the pivotal role of fighteraircraft in such operations. 27 Moreover, just as the war on the ground and at sea had become campaigns of attrition so too did the war in the air when fought on the scale of Verdun, and subsequently over the Somme. The Allies were successful because theycould feed in more resources than the Germans, and by mid-to-late 1916 the  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 64 --- THE FIRST WORLD WAR, 1914–18 53technological battle had swung back in the favour of the Allies who also now had fighters equipped with synchronized forward firing machine guns. The Germans responded with a major reorganization of their air forces into specific fighter, bomber and reconnaissance units. New and more advanced fighters wereintroduced such as the Albatross D-1. By the winter of 1916/17, the air superioritywar had tilted back to the Germans, especially as the French were rebuilding after thelosses at Verdun and the British were doing likewise after the Somme. Indeed, although the RFC could deploy 550 aircraft by the spring of 1917, they lost 140 of them to the newly invigorated German air forces. 28 However, by the middle of 1917, again aptly demonstrating the new technological aspect of war, the advantage had swung back tothe Allies with the introduction of Sopwith Camels, SE-5s and latterly the SPAD andNieuport 28s which gained and then maintained the lead on both technological andnumerical grounds. The formula was to be repeated against both major A