in the Voyenno-vozdushnyye sily  (VVS – the USSR’s air force) did emphasize army co-operation and support but was undermined by a lack applied thinking and technological development, failings which were largely a consequence of Stalin’s decapitation of the Red Army. The strategic requirements of the Soviet state were quickly identified by Trotsky, when he stated in 1923 that the first call on air power was to co-operate closely with the Red Army. Mikhail Frunze, a successful commander from the civil war, took the significance of air power still further, viewing it as part of the new revolutionary nature of warfare and as such being particularly suited to the revolutionary Soviet state. Frunze believed air power to be a crucial, though not decisive, factor in warfare and when he succeeded Trotsky as war commissar he moved to forge a firm link between air power and the army. Unlike the German operational view of air power, air forces in the USSR were largely attached directly to Red Army units for close tactical support, as laid out in the Provisional Field Regulations of 1923.56 However, the development of doctrine in the VVS was hindered by a number of factors. Initially, the plans of Frunze and Marshal Tukhachevski for a modern, technological and well equipped army, backed by a sophisticated air force, foundered on the failure of the nascent Soviet industrial state to provide anything more than a poorly equippedmass infantry based army. By 1929, aviation, armoured and technical personnel made up only ten per cent of the Red Army. Moreover, at a doctrinal level, Frunze’s ideas were rather too closely based on traditional military thinking. Frunze saw aircraft as the replacement for cavalry, disrupting the enemy rear zone, but notions of air superiority battles and of attacking the enemy air force were not uppermost in his thinking. In addition, Frunze was saddled with revolutionary ideology, which led to contradictions in his philosophy of air power. While he claime