s, and arguably sought to assert their authority by belligerent advocacy of their position. Moreover, they were quite often inexperienced as high commanding officers which may alsohave been a potential source of trouble. 1 Clearly then, the desire for change and the nature of those advocating it was to shape the development of doctrine and theory to a significant degree and must be acknowledged when examining the progress, or attimes the lack of it, in the interwar years. The emergence of strategic bombing The roots of strategic bombing theory lay back in the period before the First WorldWar when conjecture grew as to how air power should be best employed. Whereasthe more obvious examples of linking air power with armies and navies were more readily accepted, the notion that aircraft could be used in an entirely separate, or strategic, manner began to be debated. However, the grander notions of massed airfleets smashing cities and civilizations into rubble owed more to science-fiction and fantasy than to the realities of contemporary air power, although this did little to deter its advocates. Nevertheless, many of the principles of later strategic bombing theory were evident and established long before the emergence of the more famous prophets of the 1920s and 1930s. The notion of the “knockout blow”, in which a vast fleet of bomberswould deliver a major punch to an enemy which would cause such chaos that surrender would rapidly follow, had been postulated before 1914. Notably, comparisons with naval strategy and doctrine were evident, leading to perceptions of air forces as “fleets”. The first aim of an air campaign would be the decisive aerial engagement, in the tradition of the “Trafalgar” theory of naval battles. 2 This would allow “command of the air” to be established, which meant that the enemy’s air fleet would have been neutralized and thus would give the victorious air force free rein to do what they  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 84 --- THE DEVELOP