ture swallowing up huge proportions of national spending, and with militarism rife, any expenditure on new weapons had to be very carefully considered. Moreover, the actual capabilities of aircraft in war were unproven and doubtful in light of the prevailing technology. Y et the pressure and interest was such that in the five or so years up to the First World War, military air power began to develop into a useful, though still most definitely ancillary, arm. Military aviation before the Great War France By the eve of the First World War, France was the leading European aeroplane developer, surpassed only by Germany’s strength of mainly airships. The years after the Wrights saw French pioneers endeavouring to equal and then surpass the achievements of the Americans. The foundations of the French aircraft industry were layed by devotees such as Louis Bleriot, Alfred de Nieuport and Robert Esnault-Pelterie who effectively hand built their aircraft in a manner akin to craftsmen. Without a serious market there was no other way. However, the French had a major advantage in the shape of their aero-engine manufacturing, which surpassed all competitors including the Wrights. In particular, early success was based on the so-called “Gnome” engine, which was much lighter than, and thus superior to, its rivals. Bleriot crossed the English Channel in 1909 and at the famous Reims airshow 250,000 spectators and enthusiasts attended to see the aviators of the day. Other such shows fuelled military interest and the French army acquired a series of aeroplanes for the engineers and artillery, who were already contemplating the aircraft’s use in spotting and observation. Although interest in aircraft was growing, the division of air power in France between the engineers and the artillery was to prove disruptive.29 In September 1910 the French air arm’s aeroplanes proved their worth to the War Minister and to General Roques in a series of army field manoeuvres, the first to  File: --- bu