ting to the Germans’ defensive preparations which were to thwart Haig’s attempted breakthrough. 11 If anything, air power hindered offensive capability unless the enemy’s reconnaissance aircraft could be driven from the skies. The importance of aerial observation was further, and perhaps crucially, emphasized by its contribution to the pivotal role of artillery fire in the war. The First World Warsaw artillery play the key battlefield role, replacing small arms fire as the chief weapon. Contrary to popular belief it was massed and concentrated artillery fire that brought about the deaths of more combatants in the First World War than any other weapon.T echnology had moved on rapidly in the later stages of the nineteenth century and the destructive power of modern artillery had by 1914 not been fully appreciated. However, it soon became clear that artillery was the most destructive force on thebattlefield, surpassing both the machine gun and rifle as the key weapon. Aircraft, both balloons and aeroplanes, became the principal directors of artillery fire and it was their observation and spotting duties which considerably improved the accuracy andeffectiveness of shell-fire. Again, therefore, air power greatly contributed to the defensive nature of the war, for although artillery was an excellent means of breaking up enemy attacks, it was never able to provide the key to the breakthrough. This was to remaina product of all arms co-ordination, a doctrine arguably unattainable until 1918. 12 In the interim, artillery directed by aircraft, proved to be a major stumbling block to fighting the “decisive” battle so eagerly sought by the respective general staffs. Arguably,the aircraft was instrumental in bringing about the stalemate of the First World War battlefield and although it was eventually to prove a factor in solving the problem, during the 1914–18 period it was a smothering and constraining force, hardly thedynamic panacea envisaged by many pre-war novelists. Recon