n of US defence forces in general to combat the so called “empire of evil” in the early  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 225 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 2141980s. Indeed in many ways the development of FOFA was most important, for the aim was to negate the one significant advantage the Warsaw Pact had over the West –conventional forces. Although FOFA was a long-term aim and the capability did not exist in the middle of the 1980s to carry it out properly, the effect of this new programme on the Soviet hierarchy was marked. It was considered that, without amajor reorganization of the Soviet defence and development system the USSR wouldnot be able to meet the challenge. Far from just negating a perceived Soviet advantage,the West had set in motion the seeds of Gorbachev’s reforms and the ultimate collapseof the Soviet empire. Conventional air power outside Europe Since 1945, air power has been used in a number of theatres away from direct superpowerconfrontations, often for colonial purposes, but invariably it has had limited effect.For the most part, air forces have been used in a supporting transport and logistical role and only on occasion have they been allowed to be deployed to their full potential. This certainly applied in French actions in Indochina and Algeria, and likewise to theBritish in southeast Asia. The concentration on strategic and Europe based air policieswas to have serious consequences on US air capability away from its NATOcommitments in the Cold War era. The failings, which had been in effect left unaddressedsince Korea, were exposed in America’s disastrous Vietnam escapade. During theirlong involvement in southeast Asia, America’s air forces struggled to assert the authority they could and should have been able to command. The Second World War had supposedly proven that an enemy with no or little air support was at the mercy of astate with strong air capability and determined ground units. However, Vietnam wasnot the kind of confl