d away by the very high rates of attrition endured even by victorious air forces. Clearly, the Luftwaffe which prepared for the invasion of the USSR was not the force it had once been.19 In spite of the potentially much larger scale of operations across the USSR, the size ofthe German air force remained much the same in 1941 as it had been for the campaigns of 1940. Indeed, Goering and his staffwere horrified at the prospect of launching their under-prepared and ill-supported air forces on the Soviet masses. The perspicacious Air Ministry secretary, Erhard Milch, on hearing that Hitler and his staff believed that the campaign would be over before winter 1941 predicted a four year long war and began ordering winter clothing for the Luftwaffe. 20 T o compound the problem, resources were being stretched still further as Germany’s commitments grew across the continent. Already committed to maintaining the air war over northwest Europe, albeit on a reduced scale, the Luftwaffe  was also being called upon to conduct operations over the Balkans. This included the massed bombing of Belgrade, which resulted in the deathsof some 17,000 people and culminated in the airborne invasion of Crete. In addition, at the height of Operation T yphoon,  the attempt to capture Moscow in the autumn and winter of 1941, Field-Marshal Kesselring’s Second Air Fleet was sent to the Mediterranean theatre to aid the ailing the Regia Aeronautica,  particularly in North Africa where German troops and armour had recently been despatched under the aegis of Erwin Rommel. Nevertheless, to support Operation Barbarossa  the Luftwaffe  was able to deploy 2,775 aircraft, 65 per cent of its total strength. For the first time however, the Luftwaffe  was confronted by an enemy air strength much larger than its own, for the VVS (the Red Air Force) had some 8,000–10,000 aircraft in all in June 1941 with around 6,000 initially deployed in Europe. Once again the German plan adopted the tried and tested methods, b