, despite the tactical success of Jutland, that their expensive surface fleet, still heavily outnumbered as it was, was unable to tackle Britain’s Grand Fleet with any real chance of success, and thusgreater reliance was placed on the U-boat fleet. Although the use of submarines to sink merchant shipping without warning would give Imperial Germany an unfavourable press and might antagonize the USA, it was considered that an all out U-boat offensivecould swing the war in Germany’s favour by forcing Britain to sue for peace. 41 Initially, the U-boat offensive was highly successful, with Admiral Jellicoe at one point claiming that Britain could not go on with the war if such high losses continued.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 69 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 58Indeed, if Britain came close to being forced out of the war, it was as a result of the U-boat campaign. The turning point came when the British introduced escorted convoying, rather than sailing their merchantmen individually. However, the use of airships, seaplanes, flying boats, and, latterly, land based aircraft made convoys virtuallyinvulnerable to submarine attack and consequently eliminated the U-boat as a threat to British security. The U-boat’s only advantage lay in its ability to submerge for short periods to avoid detection. However, once underwater its speed fell away dramaticallyand the submarine was effectively unable to locate or attack enemy shipping. The crucial role aircraft played in this campaign was in surrounding convoys with air cover, consequently driving U-boats away from the merchant ships even though such coverwas extremely unlikely to inflict damage on submarines. This was the role Allied aircraft were to play in the Battle of the Atlantic in World War II, ultimately with the same result. 42 Elsewhere, maritime air power had little effect on the war, although the potential was clear. Naval reconnaissance and gunnery direction clearly benefited from air support but, Jut