y retarded development. 71 John Morrow takes a more balanced view stating that, while the demands of war had hindered careful examination of advances made and some development had been haphazard, in general, aircraft of 1918 were much superior to those of 1914 and the level of co-ordinated effort on the part of government, industry and science was suchthat progress of a similar level could not have been contemplated in peacetime. In particular, German airframe technology had advanced dramatically between 1914 and 1918 in an effort to make good the deficiencies of German aero-engines. Conversely,the Allies’ superior engines had allowed them to standardize and simplify airframe production, but the engines themselves were more powerful and reliable in 1918 than in 1914 by a factor four to five. 72 It is also worth noting that in the post-war years a number of military aeroplane designs were used to begin the first organized and widespread air passenger services, something unfeasible in 1914. It is clear that the war did accelerate aerial development, although concessions had to be made for the requirements of mass-production on occasion. However, as was to be proven by the Second World War, the marrying of science, industry and the military in the correct manner allowed a high degree of technical development from all sidesin the productive process. The failure of less advanced or organized industrial systems resulted in part from the fear of standardization of production which, it was believed, would hinder advancement and development. The Allies in the Great War, however,confounded such thinking and were able to mix mass-production with an increasing front-line technological superiority. The reality proved to be that once effective mass- production and procurement techniques were in place the process became highlyresponsive to demands and moreover was able to offer technical leaps which became apparent in the production process. Naturally, a degree of this success was