Japanese carrier arm still further and the IJN’s air power was to play no further significant role in the Pacific War. 18 By the time of Leyte Gulf, the invasion of the Philippines in November 1944, the Japanese were resorting to a yet more extreme tactic, that of the kamikaze.  It had become clear to the Japanese commanders that conventional air attacks were totally ineffective in the face of such overwhelming US superiority. Thus Admiral Onishi ofthe First Air Fleet devised the plan of using aircraft in a suicide attack role, which would rely on notions of the superiority of the Japanese spirit. The sacrificial attacks offered many advantages. Clearly, kamikaze  pilots need not be particularly experienced and their attacks had to be completely wiped out by the Americans, rather than just driven off. Moreover, the loss of a few pilots and aircraft against the potential damage caused to a carrier or battleship was a reasonable trade off. The first strikes came as arude shock to the Americans and set the scene for the closing stages of the war when US fleets would have to endure countless suicide attacks, a form of assault completely alien to western mentality. In the earliest encounters around the Philippines, the carriers  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 191 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 180Santee  and Suwanee  were damaged while the St Lo was sunk, all with heavy loss of life. During the closing stages of the war, and particularly in the campaigns around Okinawa,the threat of kamikaze  attacks rose to serious proportions and the US forces were grateful for the arrival of Task Force 57, a modern Royal Navy fleet equipped with armoured carriers rather than the wooden topped designs used by the US Navy.During the months of the kamikaze,  the Japanese launched over 3,000 suicide attacks in which some 49 ships were sunk, including three carriers, while 280 ships were damaged of which 44 were carriers. 19 Although the kamikaze  attacks presented a new and e