ntic and South America; and  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 119 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 108Imperial Airways throughout the British Empire. The airlines made few large orders, but they were crucial to the survival of the aero-industries. During the 1920s, Europeanfirms were predominant but by the 1930s the US firms such as Boeing, Lockheed and Douglas were beginning to dominate the world market. In part this was due to the growing need of the aero-industry for advanced construction techniques and modernengine tools to build the increasingly sophisticated civil aircraft. These were the products of a highly advanced industrial economy and here the USA had a significant lead. 26 Once again the trend of air power making increasingly heavy demands on home economies was evident. Crucially, the geopolitical structure of the USA more readily supported aircraft as a viable means of transport, whereas in Europe circumstances – shorter distances, which made air transport too costly compared to other forms, aswell as political rivalry – dictated that large scale air transport never became established to the same degree prior to 1939. It was a trend that was to bring predominance to the US based aviation industry with significant results on the ability of the economyto produce what was needed for success in World War II, especially in air transport a field in which the USA led by some way. Importantly, when the age of mass military air power arrived it was the USA more than any other nation which had theinfrastructure in place to facilitate rapid expansion. 27 The importance of civil aviation began to emerge when a new generation of airliners was introduced from the mid-to-late 1920s. While military aircraft continuedto be wood and fabric bi-planes, the demands of efficiency, speed and performance dictated that airlines had to offer more to stay profitable. Many features later to be crucial to the development of military air power in the late-1930s were develo