s to be a watershed in the founding of the western alliance and NATO. The West’s limitations were exposed in the Far East and plans were put in hand to remedy the situation with attention naturally being paid to Europe. TheLisbon discussions resulted in a target of 9,000 tactical aircraft being set in April 1953, but the degree of rearmament accepted in that year would have been similar in level to the British and French military expansion of the late 1930s. Although expansion didtake place in the early 1950s the British were keen to promote the cheaper nuclear alternative, both at tactical and strategic levels. 37 Weyland, now Commander-in-Chief, Tactical Air Command, was also an advocate of tactical nuclear weapons as a means ofbalancing the Eastern Bloc’s apparently overwhelming conventional forces advantage. Secretary of State Dean Acheson was surprised at the interest in what he described as “Buck Rogers” gadgets, but with the emergence of the New Look, NATO tacticalair power developed a nuclear reliant doctrine for operations in Europe. 38 Clearly such a policy was cheaper, for the size of ground forces could be rationalized at lower levels than the Lisbon agreement had set. Moreover, the degree of training andsophistication of tactical aircraft need not be so high because the strength of the force was in the nuclear weaponry. Consequently, air superiority fighters, direct ground co- operation aircraft and training declined, as it was naturally assumed that a war inEurope would require NATO to deploy nuclear weapons with which it was difficult to miss. Again, the USAF was later to rue this policy when confronted with the Vietnam problem. 39 There were of course drawbacks with NATO’s new doctrine. First, the extra reliance on nuclear weapons for the defence of Europe both at strategic and tactical levels meant that it would be much harder in the future to draw the Western Allianceaway from such a strategy because the alternative, major expansion of conventional