n, endurance and bombing accuracy had all been conveniently passed over by the bombing enthusiasts prior to the war, and when the defenders started to organize themselves, and even dared to shoot back at the bomber aircraft, the realities of long-range bombing began to cause serious misgivings. Airships proved to be a profound disappointment. They began to fall foul of ground fire and the weather. The much vaunted Zeppelin raids on Britain achieved very little in the way of substantive physical damage, although in the aftermath of a raid in 1915, that paragon of Victorian Englishness, the cricketer W .G. Grace, was a much mourned casualty. In total there were 54 German airship raids on Britain, the last as late as 1918, but the campaign was effectively brought to a halt in 1916 when airship losses grew too great. As defences improved, especially with the development of interceptor fighters, the Zeppelin became an expensive and vulnerable behemoth. By 1916 it had been replaced by long-range bomber aircraft. Indeed, it has been calculated that German airship crews suffered the highest casualty rates of any part of the German army.47 Other powers rapidly came to the same conclusion about the value of airships as the Germans: the Italians notably lost two airships on night- time bombing raids in 1915, 48 while the French mirrored the Germans in abandoning their army airships by 1917.49  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 71 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 60The successor to the airship proved to be the large, multi-engined bomber, developed by a number of powers both before and as the war progressed. The Germans produceda number of such aircraft, notably the Friedrichshafen GIII, the Gotha V and the Zeppelin Staaken R VI. These heavy-bombers were intended to deliver a joint knockout blow to Britain in conjunction with the launch of unrestricted submarine warfare.However, although they were more successful than their airship predecessors, they too were eventually