riority forged from drill and training. As air power came to prominence in the late 1920s and early 1930s, the defensive plan was updated and air strikes wereincluded as a means of weakening the US fleet. Both carrier aviation and land based air power were added to the Japanese battle plan, contributing to the growing belief in the IJN that victory over the USA was likely and almost inevitable. However, the appointment of Admiral Yamamoto as Commander-in-Chief of the Combined Fleet in 1939 resulted in a widespread revision of Japanese strategy, despite the fact that Yamamoto himself was opposed to any war with the USA on the groundsof industrial inferiority. 8 Nevertheless, recognizing war as a likelihood, Yamamoto switched from a defensive footing to an offensive plan of action based around air power. The starting point of any war against the USA was now to be a surprise airstrike against the US Navy’s Pacific Fleet, based by May 1940 at Pearl Harbor in the Hawaiian Islands. This was not a new idea and many eager naval students had advanced the notion in the past, only to be castigated for not adhering to Japan’s defensivestrategy. 9 However, new doctrinal thinking concerning carrier battle-groups had been crystallizing in the IJN under the aegis of Commander Minoru Genda (see Chapter Five), and Yamamoto saw the use of carrier air power as a means of seizing the initiativein the early stages of a campaign against the USA. The Pearl Harbor attack was born  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 187 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 176out of a recognition in certain parts of the IJN of the potential of air power to influence maritime operations decisively. It is crucial to note that the principal targetsof the Pearl Harbor raid were the US Navy’s aircraft carriers, not the battleships which were in fact to bear the brunt of the attack. Once the carriers were eliminated, Yamamoto believed, the US Navy would be unwilling to venture forth into seasdominated by Japane