es. By 1944, 33 per cent of artillery production and 20 per cent of ammunition was directed towards anti-aircraft activity, while between one and two million Germans were employed in countering thebombing offensive. In addition, the investment of technology in battling the Allied air forces was a distraction the already straining and disparate German war economy could do without. 96 The argument, often cited, that the resources allocated to the bomber offensive by the Allies exceeded those deployed by the German defenders against them, and therefore was strategically wasteful, is also flawed because the British allocated no more than 12 per cent to the bomber offensive (and probably muchless 97). More importantly, this line of reasoning neglects the fact that the Germans did  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 178 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 167not have the resources to spare whereas the Allies did. The strategic bombing offensive added a major drain on German resources and, by diverting guns, aircraft, men andtechnical equipment from the front-line, the strategic balance came down firmly in the Allies’ favour. The third impact of the strategic air offensive was the destruction of the Luftwaffe, already mentioned. Critics of the bombing offensive invariably ignore this crucial contribution to victory. Without the threat of the strategic offensive, the Luftwaffe would almost certainly have been available to prevent the Allied air forces frominfluencing the ground war in northwestern Europe to the degree that they did. In view of the decided deficiencies of the Allied armies when dealing with the Wehrmacht and the SS on the ground, the lack of such air supremacy could well have beencatastrophic. Linked to this debate, it is often argued that the Allies could have used their air power resources in other more effective ways. The defeat of the U-boats for example,could have been achieved much earlier than it was, if long-range bombers had been diverted to such opera