able of. It was the beginning ofdeterrent theory being a basis of national strategy, a trend that was to come to fruition in the nuclear era. The influence of bombing on strategic planning was clear by the end of the 1920s and early 1930s as the shadow of the bomber loomed large. The fear of the bomberhad become a major factor in strategic thinking, partly as a result of the experience ofWorld War I, limited though this was, partly because of the claims of the air powerprophets and the consequent impact that this had on the general public, and partly because of the arguments proffered by the air forces themselves. Books such as Invasion from the air, Air reprisal, The gas war of 1940  (written in 1931), Der luftkrieg  and Die erde im flammen  all served to build the picture across Europe of a future war being dominated by highly destructive air raids. 33 In Britain the fear was even more deep rooted, fed by books such as P .R.C. Groves’ Behind the smoke screen  (London, 1934), J. Griffin’s Glass houses and modern war  (London, 1938) and L.E.O. Charlton’s series which included War from the air  (London, 1935). The evidence that emerged from Spain during the civil war, in particular the bombing of Guernica, further emphasized the impact on civiliansand the devastation which followed. In Britain especially, the fear of the bomber was a significant factor in the determination of national strategy. The repeated attempts by  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 123 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 112governments, although ultimately fruitless, to ban the aerial threat through international agreement were clear reflections of the peculiar place of the bomber in western consciousness. More than any other weapon, the aeroplane, with its potential to attack the heart of the nation state directly, was seen as the ultimate weapon of modern war.34 The threat of the knockout blow, although widely disputed by many military analysts and, quite naturally, by the navies and armi