e capable of attacking enemy naval vessels also came to very little. The RAF argued that their massed bombing force would be able to deal with such naval threats, even without specialized training. The Royal Navy was only willing to admit that aircraft could observe and at best annoy major naval vessels and so, consequently, never pressed too hard for an increase in maritime bombers. World War II, and indeed the bombing trials of the interwar years, proved that this policy was hopelessly flawed and inadequate.63 By World War II, Britain had no properly considered aerial anti-submarine doctrine or aircraft capable of fulfilling such a role; no effective maritime striking force otherthan a small number of antiquated torpedo bombers (the most effective aircraft in trials in the 1920s/30s had been the dive-bomber, but unlike in Japan and the USA, this was rejected by the RAF as being too specialized); and no capable carrier air arm. The RN still had a narrow view of the use of aircraft in naval warfare and aircraft were to be deployed as reconnaissance and hindering forces rather than as decisive attacking units. In view of this position in 1939, it is all the more remarkable that the RN was willing and able to launch the Taranto raid against the Italian fleet in 1940. This perhaps demonstrated that the RN was constrained by circumstances more than desire in the interwar era. The US Navy had certain advantages over its British counterpart and this, in part, enabled a more forward thinking approach to maritime air power. Principally, the lack of a central air force which also included naval aircraft, as in the RAF’s case, allowed the US Navy to focus on maritime air power in its own way, free from interference. The influence of Mitchell in the early years was quite important as his unremitting pressure prompted the Chief of Naval Operations, William Benson, to create a Bureau of Aeronautics (BuAer), dedicated to naval aviation, in 1921. 64 However, the most influential f