e indigenous civilizationsof the Americas, was the means with which to prosecute a greater degree of war, both in terms of destruction and in the perceptions of societies. Many civilizations have used whatever methods were available to prosecute war, often with few restraints, andair power was in reality nothing more than a further, if highly significant, step in this particular direction. However, it is clear that in many ways the thought of aerial attack on civilians, particularly massed strategic bombing, has coloured our perceptions of air war in the first half of the twentieth century. Although popular images such as the Great War’s knights of the air, Biggles and victory rolls over Biggin Hill still pervade our thinking,the starkest images we have of air war are those of Hamburg, Dresden, Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Generally, studies of air power in the broadest sense have concentrated closely on the relative merits or failings of strategic bombing. From the very earliestdays of controlled air flight, and indeed even before, the advocates of air power claimed that aerial bombing attack would prove to be the most decisive form of warfare, bringing enemies to the point of capitulation in a very short space of time.Despite the fact that they had little impact on air force development themselves, air power advocates such as Guilio Douhet, Billy Mitchell and Alexander de Seversky did much to publicize the notion that air power alone could be decisive in wars. Theirclaims proved to be the yardstick by which the bombing offensives of World War II would be measured, and ultimately be seen to fail. However, this perceived failure, coupled with the shocking imagery of Dresden and Hiroshima, has distorted the picture of air power. Strategic bombing was a failure only by the standards of its arch-proponents. Clearly, bombing did not win World War II by itself, nor was it ever likely to. But it did contribute greatly to the economiccollapse of the Axis powers, not only in ter