nation state directly, was seen as the ultimate weapon of modern war.34 The threat of the knockout blow, although widely disputed by many military analysts and, quite naturally, by the navies and armies of the world, markedly influenced government policy in Britain. The Air Staff fed the government horrendous casualty figures – 20,000 in London on the first day of an aerial assault, 150,000 in the first week. Moreover, they emphasized, the morale of the civilian population was much more susceptible to collapse than that of the military.35 The British were also deeply conscious of the damage done to their geostrategic position by the bomber. Prior to World War I, thanks to the English Channel, the British had to fear only naval threats to their security and these had been negated by the superiority of the Royal Navy. However, with the advent of the aerial threat, the British were no longer secure from direct attack. They were as vulnerable as any other European power to aerial bombardment, if not more so. For a nation isolated from the physical devastation of war, unless self-inflicted, for the best part of 900 years it was a chastening experience, an experience also to be encountered by the USA in the 1950s. Although not affected to the same degree by the fear of the bomber, many other states across Europe were also concerned with the threat of massed bombing and measures evolved in an attempt to deal with the problem. T wo political responses to the shadow of the bomber emerged: restraint or deterrent. The former floundered in a sea of mistrust and antipathy. Although the preferred option of the USA and Britain, few in the West believed that the USSR, which on paper had the largest air force in the world, could be trusted to honour any air disarmament agreement. The feeling was mutual and, in any case, the rise of Nazi Germany, French insecurity and the generally deteriorating international situation swept away the likelihood of any air disarmament agreement succee