in 1908at Fort Myer, Virginia, which injured Orville Wright and killed a passenger caused delay. The US Army did not receive its first aeroplane until the following year. 26 In Austria–Hungary air power development was taking its first faltering steps with the War Ministry in Vienna wanting to pursue a deal with the Wrights. However, this collapsed due to the cost involved.27 In Italy, the War Ministry set up a centre for flying in 1908 and was considering buying a “flyer” from the Wrights, despite certainreservations that aircraft were not yet suitable for military operations. Even in Russia steps were being taken to keep up with the West, partly at the behest of newspaper pressure. By 1909 the Russians had developed a dirigible airship, and as the news ofthe Wrights spread, a newly formed Imperial All-Russian Aero Club began to raise funds to promote aerial activity. 28 It was clear that despite popular perceptions of the reactionary and conservative attitudes of the armed forces, most were not averse to investigating the possibilities of air power, following the revelations of the Wrights. Certainly, public pressure grew and was fuelled by the nationalistic fervour then prevalent in Europe. The notion that arival power might take a military leap forward, and thus change the balance of power,  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 42 --- THE BIRTH OF AIR POWER 31was an important factor in the rise of air leagues, aero-clubs and pro-aerial pressure groups. The influence of the Zeppelin, the “flyers” of the Wrights and the literature of writers such as Wells and the burgeoning aviation press is undeniable. However, although the potential and fear of air power had taken root, the armed forces of the West had to take a more pragmatic view. With ever increasing arms expenditure swallowing up huge proportions of national spending, and with militarism rife, any expenditure on new weapons had to be very carefully considered. Moreover, the actual capabilities of aircraft in