the use of aircraft in these roles were being overcome, such as communications with the ground and other aircraft, and close co-operation with mobile land forces, which now included tanks in significant numbers. Whereas air forces flinched from the heavy loss rates on close air support, the foundations had, nevertheless, been laid forthe creation of blitzkrieg. Maritime aviation On the outbreak of war, naval aviation was still embryonic, even more so than its land based cousin. Although experimentation and development was taking place, there were many different attitudes to the future of maritime air power and the lack of uniformity in views of the future illustrated the confusion. Unsurprisingly, airships were favoured by Germany, and for a time by Britain, and indeed they seemed to have the features required for maritime operations: endurance and lifting/carrying capacity.40 Aeroplane development followed a number of routes, although in the early stages thedebate centred on the relative advantages and failings of seaplanes and flying boats. The former were land-planes with floats fitted to replace the undercarriage, while the latter had amphibious hulls and were purpose designed for operating from water. Seaplanes were smaller, handier and cheaper, while flying boats were longer-ranged  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 68 --- THE FIRST WORLD WAR, 1914–18 57but more expensive to build and operate. By 1914, aircraft were already capable of operating from ships, though these seaplane tenders tended to be converted vessels and not always entirely suitable. Nevertheless, all the major powers had some form of maritime air capability on the outbreak of war, although the realities of trying tooperate aircraft in the generally hostile environment of the sea proved to be a major stumbling block. Moreover, few forces had any clearly defined doctrine for the employment of their charges, despite trials and battle manoeuvres involving aircraft in1913. The most important con