policy, particularly in Britain and to a lesser degree in Germany, but also across much of the industrial world. At Munich, deficiencies in air power strength played an important part in shaping British and French policy. Y et, despite perceptions, air strength remained weak or flawed in all nations and was palpably unable to meet the demands and expectations made of it. Although Germany embarked on a major Luftwaffe  expansion scheme in the 1930s, the foundations of such growth were undermined by the inadequate development and direction of the aero-industry. Ultimately, this was to be a contributory factor in Germany’s defeat in World War II. Conversely, the British underpinned their long-term air strength by a co-ordinated industrial effort. The USSR, the USA and Britain took a long sighted and industrial view of air power, and short-term capability was compromised in order  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 135 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 124to secure long-term strength. The short-term was not aided by certain events (such as Stalin’s purges) or by financial stringency, or indeed by pursuing the more grandiose claims of the extreme air power advocates. Nevertheless, when conflict came in 1939 the benefits of aero-industry organization and expansion in a “total war” environment were to become self-evident, even if it did not appear so in 1940 and 1941.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 136 --- 125Chapter Six The war in Europe, 1939–45 Undoubtedly, the apogee of total war and, indeed, mass air war emerged in the 1939– 45 conflict. In 1939, air power was considered a key component of military and naval activity, and some even saw the value of strategic bombing as a means of defeating enemy powers. By 1945, the value of air supremacy had been demonstrated by theAllies’ crushing air strength and its pivotal role in the defeat of Germany. The apocalypticvisions of Douhet and his contemporaries finally, on the face of it, came to fruitionwith the mass d