me aspects of total war even more, displaying such extremes askamikaze suicide attacks and the atomic bombings. More than the war in Europe, thePacific War, as it is often known, demonstrated an even greater reliance on air powerboth at tactical and strategical levels. The war was dominated by maritime operationsand naval forces were the means by which offensive activity was carried out. Morespecifically, the arbiters of success or failure throughout the war were aircraft carriers.Surface combat vessels such as battleships and cruisers became secondary to the newflat topped capital ships and the projection of air power emerged as the key toeffective operations. By the end of the war, the US Navy could call upon a huge fleetof fast, modern carriers all equipped with the latest aircraft, while the battleship hadbeen reduced to a support or land-bombardment vessel. The transition was mostclearly demonstrated when the epitome of the big gun battleship and the largest suchship ever built, the Japanese Yamato,  was sunk by aircraft of the US Navy in 1945. Air power also came more into its own because of the geography of the war. Whereas the war in Europe had been for the most part a continental based effort with vast armies deciding the final outcome, in the Pacific War, the campaigning took place over enormous expanses of ocean with small clusters of islands being the prizes. The usual way to capture such bases was to launch amphibious assaults and, of course,  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 182 --- THE WAR IN THE FAR EAST, 1937–45 171such maritime forces were highly vulnerable to air power. Consequently, maritime operations spearheaded by air power were the key to success in the war against Japan.Although land based campaigns did take place in southeast Asia and China, Japan was defeated by US drives across the Pacific, the so-called island hopping offensives, offensives dominated by air power to a degree unknown in Europe. Additionally, air power continued unabat