gine, eight-ton, underarmed and underpowered dinosaur”.48 In wider terms, without a clear goal and with an aero- industry still steeped in the practices and thinking of the past, the French were left with far too much to do by the late 1930s. The air minister, Pierre Cot, intervened in 1937 to bring French air doctrine under some form of control. The army’s view effectively prevailed, with the need to deny enemy air forces the ability to roam over French air space considered a priority. Consequently, Plan V  was initiated to build many more fighters. However, this scheme was incomplete by the outbreak of war in 1939. Although the basis of Plan V  was not in itself misguided, it did reflect again the defensive nature of French strategy. The French air force’s belief that the battle for air superiority required offensive andaggressive action akin to German thinking was also not without merit, although quite possibly the Armee de l’Air  had a hidden agenda by wanting to demonstrate that an independent strategy and thus an air force free from being shackled to the army wasnecessary. However, the generally defensive posture adopted by the French armed forces surrendered the initiative and allowed the dispersed fighter defences, as existed in 1940, to be swamped by the Luftwaffe. The British experience reflected the nature of general strategy and the prevailing doctrine of the RAF , which was based principally around strategic bombing. Army co-operation was considered to be of limited importance and consisted at one stageof just one squadron, although four was the more usual figure. 49 In light of the political aim not to deploy another large army on the continent and to rely on economic, political and strategic bombing threats, this was logical.50 However, the British army’s perception of the role of air power was particularly outdated and conservative. Moreover, whereas the Luftwaffe  and even the Armee de l’Air  investigated close operational level co-operation between