. Clearly, the revolutionary nature of strategic bombing in widening and deepening modern war has been the factor which has set it apart from other uses of air power. In terms of strategic bombing’s impact on the outcome of the war the debate continues. However, despite the ethical and moral issues which surround the use ofmassed bombers to attack civilians, the value of the Allied bombing offensives to final victory should not be dismissed lightly, as many continue to do. 70 Moreover, when the  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 165 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 154more wide-ranging effects of the offensive are considered, such as the destruction of the Luftwaffe  from 1943 onwards and the diversion of scarce resources to the defence of German airspace, then the impact of the offensive appears more pronounced. TheAllied victory in Normandy would have been unthinkable without the vast andoverwhelming support of the Allied air forces and if the attrition imposed upon theLuftwaffe  had not been forced by the use of long-range fighter-escorts from late 1943 onwards then such air supremacy would in no way have been as complete. Debate over the strategic bombing offensive has too often been bogged down in retrospective quibbling over the amount of damage (or lack of it) done to the German economyand has glossed over the wider strategic requirements of the time. This is not to assertthat mistakes were not made or that strategic bombing fitted neatly into an integratedAllied grand strategy at all times, or indeed that just because the Allies won, thesystematic flattening of German cities, particularly from the autumn of 1944 onwards, was entirely justifiable on all counts. However, a wide perspective of the strategic bombing offensive’s contribution to Allied victory needs to be appreciated. The British, or more accurately the RAF , had been speculating optimistically about a future strategic bombing offensive since the end of the First World War. Nevertheless,go