HE WAR IN THE FAR EAST, 1937–45 173However, limitations on Japanese aerial capabilities were soon illustrated and, despite the propaganda, the Chinese air forces were never eliminated or put to the sword in the 1937–41 war. Since the debacle of 1931 the Chinese warlords and Chiang Kai- shek had been desperately trying to raise a viable air force, demonstrating the importancethey now attached to air power. By 1937 the Chinese had developed basic aerial capability, based on foreign imports of pilots, aircraft and advisors. Indeed, the Chinese had curried favour with the Soviets and the Americans and both were to take part incombating the Japanese. Many of the Chinese air forces were equipped with obsolete aircraft and their organization and command structure left much to be desired. However, the Japanese could not gain air supremacy, nor decisively influence the outcome ofthe campaign, despite resorting to what were considered for the period quite brutal and indiscriminate city bombings. 5 It is clear that despite protestations and claims to the contrary by the Japanese, the Chinese air forces continued to provide oppositionthroughout the period and Japan’s air forces were never allowed a free hand to operate at will. Again, it can be seen that denying air supremacy or contesting air superiority was enough to reduce drastically the degree to which air power could influence theoutcome of land campaigns. However, Japanese air power was to suffer quite badly at the hands of the Soviet Union’s air forces (the VVS) in the so-called Nomonhan Incident between May andSeptember 1939. The Japanese and Soviet forces had clashed before in 1938 at Changkufeng, but only the Soviets employed air forces and these were small in number. The following year, however, despite the mauling received by the Japanese atChangkufeng, hostilities broke out again. The Japanese units suffered heavily under attack from the Soviet forces, which employed combined arms tactics, supported by artillery a