gned against those who argued for more autonomy. The state of the French aeroplane industry was a key factor in the debate. As in Britain, moves were afoot to bring aircraft production under central control thanks to the general inefficiency of French producers. However, this inefficiency was a productof the nature of a nascent industry, although the French military’s policy of concentrating its orders with certain favoured firms helped to restrict the growth of the industry. In response to concerns over low level bombing, artillery aviation officers pushed for armoured aircraft to provide protection against ground fire. However, such a leap was beyond the current aviation technology and merely served as another distraction for an already overstretched industry. Nevertheless, the fear of heavy losses to groundfire when on low level missions was to be proved well-founded by the events of the Great War. However, in April 1914 aerial development had reached such a level that a Directorate of Military Aeronautics was established with General Barnard as head. Additionally, further investigations into bombing and aerial combat were undertaken at the behest of the General Staff, who were now beginning to see real value in air power, albeit stillon a limited scale. An annual bombing competition took place and tests involving aircraft mounted cannon were carried out, but the military high command remained convinced that reconnaissance was the key role of aircraft, and on the eve of war in  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 44 --- THE BIRTH OF AIR POWER 331914 this was almost certainly accurate. However, even France possessed reactionary and conservative attitudes towards air power within its military ranks, such as General Foch who saw no value in aircraft whatsoever. In war, he claimed about aviation’s value, “. . . c’est zero”.32 On the outbreak of war, France still held aerial superiority in certain areas, but the lead was nowhere near as significant as it might have b