ecided Churchillagainst naval airships in 1914). He also notably claimed that bombers would require escort fighters to protect them during bombing missions over hostile territory, a tactic that was too readily dismissed until 1943. If one were to seek a true theorist for Britishstrategic bombing, more than anyone else it would be Lanchester, even if the RAF ignored some of his predictions. It is more than likely that Lanchester was read by Sir Frederick Sykes, Chief of the Air Staff, RAF (1918–19) and Sir Hugh Trenchard, thedominant chief of the RAF throughout its formative years (1918 and 1919–29). The First World War had indicated the potential of massed bombing, but many problems had emerged once defenders had organized themselves. The Frenchabandoned long-range bombing in 1915, the Germans tried first with airships, then with heavy bombers such as the Gotha and the Staaken, only effectively to give up by 1917. Despite claims that the cover of darkness offered a way out of the problem,many of the underlying drawbacks remained: navigation, excessive resource investment, targeting, true strategic value, and so forth. However, such difficulties were considered surmountable and by the end of the war the Allies were on the point of launching asustained bombing campaign against German cities. Perversely, some air power advocates such as the American Billy Mitchell were disappointed that the war ended when it did as it denied them their chance to prove what their ever expanding fleets were  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 85 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 74capable of. However, if the war had continued into 1919 and the bombing campaigns had gone badly, the supporters of air power would almost certainly have glossed over the problems and explained away the failings as they had in 1915 and 1917 and were to continue to do so throughout the Second World War. Post-war thinking nevertheless began to build on pre-war theorizing and on some of the lessons of the Gr