ok. It should be stated that the British did not require a fast carrier force to fight Germany and the resources were not available until very late into the 1930s to construct such a force to operate against the Japanese, or possibly the Italians.However, the bomber dominated doctrine of the RAF and the Royal Navy’s conservative views on the capacity of air power to dominate maritime operations, either against naval or submarine threats, did seriously hinder the development of maritime airpower. Conclusions For the most part, air power doctrine in the interwar period developed according tonational strategic requirements, for obvious and logical reasons. In general, the maritimepowers created carrier and land based air power suited to their perceived needs, and the doctrine for the effective use of such resources was likewise formulated. Those powers who were able or wanted to avoid major continental commitments such asBritain and the USA saw in strategic bombing a way of doing just that. Conversely, the continental powers turned their attention, with varying degrees of success, to establishing how best to use air power to support their armies. What is clear is that, for the most part, doctrine was formulated in isolation from the famous “theorists”. Neither Douhet  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 109 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 98nor Mitchell for example could be said to have directly precipitated national air strategies. Significant advances were made in the field of doctrine, most notably by the Germans and their pragmatic approach to the employment of air forces in support ofland war, and by the Japanese and Americans in the field of carrier-borne aviation. Inother areas, technology drove doctrine with varying degrees of success. The emergenttechnology of radar in the mid-1930s precipitated Britain’s advanced air defence system,which served them well in 1940, and the doctrine for its use came in its wake. Incontrast, US aircraft designs were highly