d by theAllies’ crushing air strength and its pivotal role in the defeat of Germany. The apocalypticvisions of Douhet and his contemporaries finally, on the face of it, came to fruitionwith the mass destruction of Dresden, T okyo and latterly Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Bythe end of the World War, air power not only played a crucial role in deciding the outcome of ground offensives and naval operations, it also promised to elevate (or degenerate) war onto an entirely new plain. Ultimately, war had become so “total”that the conflict threatened to subsume the political element which had always beenthe very impetus for war itself. Air power and strategy Despite all this, to be fully effective, air power had to be integrated into an overallstrategy for the prosecution of the war which involved other services and a combination of routes to victory. The belligerent powers linked strategy and air power with varying degrees of success at different points in the war. For example, the Luftwaffe  led the way in the early years of the war being a vital, indeed possibly defining, component of  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 137 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 126blitzkrieg.  As Germany enjoyed staggering success between 1939 and 1941, so the high profile of air power in precipitating such victories in part led the Allies to develop air forces of such overwhelming superiority that, from the spring of 1944, they enjoyedair supremacy on a previously unprecedented scale. Paradoxically, the Luftwaffe,  despite its apparent trailblazing, disintegrated as the war progressed, being the first casualty ofthe attritional war into which Hitler had led his state. The roots of German failure andAllied and Soviet success in the air war can in part be traced back to the pre-war years when the foundations of the later massive expansion of the aero-industries began. Aircraft production and development was a microcosm of the war as a whole. TheGermans, at a higher state of front-line milit