whether it was in armed combat or in the prosecution of asiege or blockade. The impact of such war was consequently restricted to the damage done by the armed forces themselves, with little, if any, immediate consequence for the civilian populations not directly in their path. Economically, politically and culturally  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 13 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 2the war may have had significant consequences, but physical destruction was more often than not confined to the combatants and those unlucky enough to be too close to the fighting. Aircraft changed this natural order of things. The effective utilization of air power added, for the first time in history, a third dimension to war: a dimension whichallowed direct attack on enemy rear zones, cities, economies and, perhaps mostimportantly, civilian populations. Moreover, the zone of conflict was extended by aircraft from the immediate battlefield to the rear zones of armies. Supply routes were open to attack and soldiers were given little respite from the front. Just as importantly,air power offered the means with which to gather intelligence and information onthe enemy army’s movements and aircraft rapidly developed the ability to intervene ina direct and offensive manner on the battlefield itself. Nevertheless, the impact of airpower on military campaigns, while it was eventually to become crucial and at times pivotal to success, was only one facet of the significance of air power. In addition to tactical or operational air power came strategic air power: that is the use of air forces toattack the enemy state, its centres of population, and its economy directly. This facetof air power was instrumental in shaping the attitude of human civilization towardswar, culminating as it did in the atomic bombings of Japan in 1945. Strategic air power and total war The twentieth century saw the advent of so-called “total war”, and aircraft were toplay a significant role in developing the t