ion, the production war was not just about aircraft design, but rested equally on the development of supporting technology. Again the Allies were able to outstrip the Axis powers in Europe by maintaining a high level of technical input into the air war, an input which Germany could not match indefinitely with such limited resources. With tremendous effort, near parity was maintained until 1943 when the  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 151 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 140Table 6.2 – Aircraft production, 1939–45 * = Britain and Commonwealth, plus USSR from 1941 and USA from 1942. Does not include France. ** = Germany, plus Italy between 1940–43 and Japan from 1942. Source:  Overy, The air war,  p. 150. Allies surged ahead leaving the Germans trailing in their wake. Once behind it was clearly beyond the Axis to catch up. Allied success was based on a number of inherent and created advantages. The initial states of the British and US economies lent themselves to rapid expansion, forboth had a pool of untapped labour, a legacy of the 1930s. Moreover, in the pre-waryears, western economies had concentrated upon capital goods production – the endproduct – whereas their German counterparts had, in an effort to defeat unemployment,developed heavy industry. During the exigencies of war it proved highly problematicalto solve difficulties in end production, and German output suffered as a result, while the Allies found it much easier to harness pools of labour and resources and forge them into the required industries. The most important factor in the development of Allied superiority lay in the identification, at a high level, of major air power expansion as a strategic precursor tosuccess. From 1936/37 for example, the British began preparing for a potential wartimeexpansion of its aero-industry. A framework was put in place such that if war broke  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 152 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 141out it could be quickly filled and used t