air arm was considered essential. For Britain, carrier operations were not of the same order of importance. Although the navy viewed its interwar imperial duties very seriously, national strategic requirements resultedin the subjugating of dedicated maritime air power to the needs of the RAF: first in itsland based imperial policing duties and secondly in its independent strategic bombingrole. Ultimately, this policy resulted in Britain being unprepared to defend its overseastrade routes with maritime aircraft in the Second World War. This would have been essential for victory in the Battle of the Atlantic. In this respect, national strategy was undermined by not applying air power in trade defence. Japan also failed to use air power resources effectively in the field of trade defence, contributing greatly to the disastrous loss of merchant shipping in the later stages ofWorld War II. 9 Even the Imperial Japanese Navy’s much vaunted carrier fleet was arguably not as central to national strategy as it should have been. The Imperial Navy still clung to the notion that the Pacific war would be decided by a large scale surface fleet showdown: they considered that their carrier fleet would be a useful arm in theearly stages of the war, when Japan was on the offensive, but would only play a limitedsupporting role in the closing stages of the war. 10 In contrast, the USA placed carrier doctrine at the centre of its strategy, albeit because of limited alternatives, and deliberatelyavoided surface confrontations with the Japanese. The US forces rapidly realized that concentrated and mobile air power was the key to operations in the Pacific. This was something that the Japanese never fully accepted.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 21 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 10Therefore, it can be seen that nations chose the mix of air power forces necessary for them to prosecute certain policies and that no state’s requirements were the same.Where inappropriate choices wer