, Franz Schneider. 23 More importantly, it was the Germans who were the first to marry the synchronized forward firing machine gun to a fast and manoeuvrable single-engined aircraft in theFokker Eindekker, which started to arrive at the front in the middle of 1915. This was the first real example of technology providing one side in the air war with a distinct tactical and operational advantage over the other. The Allies were forced to respond,and the technological aspect of the air superiority war was to swing back and forth for the next three years. The Eindekker was soon to have an impact by ending French bombing raids when losses inflicted by the new fighter grew too high. By the end of 1915, the Germans began inflicting heavier losses on Allied aircraft over the frontline, the Royal Flying Corps attributing the loss of 20 aircraft between November 7 and January 12 tothe new “Fokker scourge” as it was christened. 24 Armed with the Eindekkers, the Germans attempted the first co-ordinated air superiority campaign over Verdun in 1916, where they used fighters both to deny French reconnaissance aircraft access toGerman airspace and to escort German reconnaissance aircraft when they flew over French territory. New aggressive German fighter tactics as pioneered by Oswald Boelcke and Max Immelmann had immediate impact and the unprepared French air forceswere rapidly swept from the skies. 25 The French were forced to hit back in this first struggle for air superiority, and Joffre appointed Major Tricornot de Rose to re-establish control of French airspace.He put together a high quality force of 15 escadrilles  (French air groups) to contest the air over Verdun, adopting offensive patrols with the avowed intent of fighting German aircraft and driving them from the skies. 26 The air campaign swung back and forth with ever larger concentrations of aircraft (French groupes de chasse  and German Jagdstaffeln ) being deployed. Ultimately, the French emerged victorious and Germ