try needed more time than Hitler was to allow them. 51 German front-line air power on the outbreak of war was considerable, but its base was weak and its long-term planning flawed. Economic constraints were always a problem, with small scale fuel production, lack of foreign currency and an aero- industry of limited size being the most significant. The inability of German industry to provide efficient engines for the proposed heavy-bombers, the Dornier Do 19 and Junkers Ju 89, led to their cancellation and consequent diminishing interest in strategic bombing.52 Nevertheless, between 1933 and 1936 the aircraft industry expanded by  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 130 --- GLOBAL AIR POWER, 1918–39 119800 per cent and military air power consumed 40 per cent of the defence budget. Once the initial burst of energy and enthusiasm had spent itself, however, problems in long-term planning emerged, problems which the existing structure was unable tocope with. 53 The poor overall and central direction of air rearmament was a major factor in the long-term failure of the Luftwaffe,  with the leadership of Herman Goering of particular significance. His position as Hitler’s right-hand man was initially of value to German air power, ensuring adequate resourcing but, in the long-term, Goering’s failings became apparent and ultimately ruinous. He was largely concerned with numbers and, likethe British, became embroiled in creating a large front-line force of aircraft to add toGermany’s and his own personal prestige. He ignored pleas for greater investment insupplies, spare parts and logistical support, leaving the Luftwaffe  in a parlous state once the war had developed. 54 The failings of Goering were partly alleviated in the mid-1930s by the shrewd stewardship of Erhard Milch, State Secretary at the Air Ministry. Milch, an able andwell-connected, if abrasive organizer, was able to keep German aircraft productionroughly on target until the major expansion schemes of the late 19