haps more than any other issue. From 1938 onwards, the Japanese endeavoured to isolate China from western and Soviet aid once it had become clear that a short term decisive victory had been denied. Although by the end of 1938 the Japanese controlled many of the key areas of China, they had not achieved victory, and lacking the capacity and capability to maintain a high degree of military effort, the war degenerated into a stalemate, with little territory changing hands between 1938 and 1945. Japan’s long-term strategy became one of blockade and isolation of China. The years prior to Pearl Harbor had proved an excellent training ground for Japanese air forces, both army and navy, and much had been learnt in the way of operational and tactical know-how. However, the wider issues of attrition and depletion rates within air forces were glossed over, as were the demands made on armed forces by protracted and aggressive war of the sort Japan endured in China. Y et, having become embroiled in such a conflict, Japan had to find a way out of the predicament especiallywith the USA becoming more belligerent in its dealings with the Japanese government. For the Allies, the lessons of the years up to 1941 were either ignored or could not be acted upon. Despite evidence to the contrary many intelligence sources in the West reported that Japan had a poorly equipped and trained air force. Nevertheless, the British, especially after 1939, were determined to avoid antagonizing the Japanese. They realized the parlous state of their own defences in Asia. When war came to the Pacific, the Americans were still expanding and re-equipping while the Europeans had little deployed in Asia and around the Indian Ocean due to the ebb and flow of the war in Europe. Japanese strategy and air power T o students considering the Pacific War after the passing of over five decades, Japan’s decision to attack the USA, China, Britain and the Commonwealth simultaneously seems tantamount to strategic suici