st efficient in the long-term but also naturally prevented the use of forward firing machine guns, as pilots still had to fire their guns manually at this time. Initially, it was the French who were the first to advance the role of the fighter aircraft. In 1915 they introduced a policy of throwing up an aerial barrage of aircraft across the front to deny the Germans access to French airspace. The French single- seater Morane-Saulnier monoplane of 1914 and the British two-seater Vickers FB5,which appeared in the spring of 1915 and mounted a forward firing machine gun (it was a pusher engined aircraft), gave the German pilots some cause for disgruntlement, armed as they still were with pistols and rifles. Nevertheless, it was clear that in aerialperformance terms, the two-seater aircraft was no match for the single-seater, although the latter suffered in that the pilot could not fire accurately and fly at the same time. The problem was to be solved in 1915. First, a French aviator, Roland Garros, developed metal deflectors which encased part of the wooden propeller and literally knocked the bullets out of the way. However, this caused efficiency and safety problems as aircraft could still destroy their own propellers with the device. It was the introductionof interrupter gears which synchronized the engine with the machine gun and prevented the gun from firing when the propeller was in the line of fire that was the real breakthrough in the development of the true fighter/interceptor aircraft. This  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 63 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 52advance is usually attributed to Anthony Fokker, a Dutch aircraft designer working for the Germans, but there is evidence to suggest that the idea dated back to 1913and the work of a German engineer, Franz Schneider. 23 More importantly, it was the Germans who were the first to marry the synchronized forward firing machine gun to a fast and manoeuvrable single-engined aircraft in theFokker Einde