n their Axis enemies. Initially, the German and the Japanese airforces held both qualitative and quantitative advantages over their opponents, particularly over the smaller powers such as Poland, Belgium, The Netherlands and the Balkan states, again emphasizing that only the very rich could now compete in air powerconfrontations. Nevertheless, and in spite of the many early victories, the Luftwaffe  and the Japanese air forces began to fall behind the Allies in the implementation of new technology and personnel investment. They were quite capable of designing equallyand often more advanced aircraft at an experimental and development stage, but the ability to produce enough of them efficiently and quickly was beyond them. The Germans developed a whole generation of advanced jet aircraft in the closing stagesof the Second World War, most famously illustrated by the Messerschmitt Me 262. However, for political as well as economic reasons they could not produce enough of them to make a difference. Even the Japanese had designed a number of excellentaircraft, quite capable of matching the US Navy’s Hellcats, Corsairs and Avengers, but again they were unable to mass-produce them. In both cases they were crippled still further by their inability to train enough pilots to fly the aircraft they had. It should beremembered that it was the inability to train and invest in aircrew as much as anything that undermined Axis air power efforts in World War II. The standard historical belief that the Allies’ “mediocre many” simply swamped the Axis powers’ “superior few” is therefore inaccurate. By the end of the war, Allied air power not only greatly outnumbered that of its enemies, it also largely outclassed it. This was not so much in the area of design and theory, but in what was readilyavailable, in mass-production, and had aircrew to fly it. The ability to mass-produce effective equipment and train sufficient personnel was the cornerstone of Allied success in World War II, and a