es, atmuch lower cost than the army, which hitherto would have been expected to carry out such operations. The first such campaign was carried out in Afghanistan in 1919 in the so-called “Third Afghan War” and, in spite of difficult operating conditions, airraids were carried out on Kabul, Jalalabad and Dakka along with leafleting designed to demoralize the Afghan troops. Despite initial panic, however, the Afghan troops and tribesmen learned to fight back, and three aircraft were brought down. But thepsychological effect of the raids, especially when the Afghan capital was targeted, was considered by the RAF to be a clear indication of the potential of air power to operate effectively in defence of the empire, although naturally the army disagreed. 13 The case for air policing was boosted by the Somaliland campaign in 1920 against the Dervish uprising, led by Mohammed bin Abdulla Hassan. Aircraft were used to some effect with reconnaissance and bombing raids being undertaken, and the governor ofSomaliland even went so far as to claim that the RAF alone had, in effect, won the campaign. However, the most famous example of imperial policing undertaken by the RAF occurred in Iraq between 1922 and 1925. The British had become embroiled in the convoluted politics of the region following the Great War and a rebellion had broken out in 1920. Forced to commit men and equipment, by the end of the year there were17,000 British and 85,000 Indian troops stationed in Iraq to combat the rebels. 14 With concern mounting at this growing and excessive commitment and expenditure, Winston Churchill, the Secretary of State for Air and of the War Office, in conjunction with SirHugh Trenchard, formulated a plan for controlling Iraq through air power, supported by a small ground force. The plan was sold to the cabinet largely on the grounds of greatly reduced cost, and was a key factor in ensuring the survival of the independentRAF . The impact was considerable and in conjunction with po