POWER DOCTRINE AND THEORY 91Maritime air power divided into two sectors. First, there were land based air forces which sought to intercept and attack enemy naval units, and which also carried outthe important role of defending seaborne trade. Secondly, and of greater interest to naval thinkers in the interwar period, there was carrier-borne aviation which developed rapidly in some navies up to 1939. During the interwar period the development ofdoctrine in these two respective fields was, however, uneven and in some cases, despite pressing strategic need, almost non-existent. The experience of World War I had clearly illustrated to armies the crucial nature of air power in the conduct of land campaigns, while strategic operations had also been undertaken to a certain extent between 1915 and 1918 and in any case had a host of vociferous advocates. In contrast, maritime air power laboured partly because it hadneither the weight of evidence, nor the popular support enjoyed by its other air power cousins. Consequently, it suffered markedly in Britain, developed in a distorted manner in Japan, and in the US Navy was still struggling to assert itself in 1941 whenthe Pearl Harbor raid decided matters in a peremptory manner. Elsewhere, maritime air power, often for quite legitimate strategic reasons, was considered to be at best peripheral and even occasionally a dangerous distraction. The role of the American air power advocate Billy Mitchell in the development of maritime air forces, as well as air strength in general, has usually been overstated. Certainly, like Douhet, his influence was less as a strategist or theorist and more as an advocateand even as a vociferous publicist. 59 Mitchell, the then Assistant Chief of the US Army Air Corps, was instrumental in setting up a series of trials in the early 1920s aimed at proving that aircraft could influence naval operations decisively. In 1921, the ex-Germanbattleship Ostfriesland  was sunk by bomber aircraft and, even thoug