m both German fighters and flakdefences were prohibitive. Within two days, half of the Allied aircraft in the combatzone had been destroyed and, by 20 May, with the situation for the British ExpeditionaryForces deteriorating the RAF had abandoned the continent. 12 Perhaps the act which best illustrated the role air power played in blitzkrieg  came with the audacious breakthrough across the Meuse which decided the outcome of the campaign.13 Here, a screen of fighters covered the crossing from Allied reconnaissance aircraft, and German close-air support bombers, notably the Junkers Ju 87 “Stuka”,kept the French defenders under constant bombardment. Allied attempts to strike atthe unexpected breach in their defences came to nothing and incurred heavy losses,despite the simultaneous diversion of the Luftwaffe ’s main efforts to the elimination of Dutch resistance. In this brief northern air campaign the ending of Dutch resistance, largely as a result of the bombing of Rotterdam, indicated the psychological effectaerial bombardment could have. 14 The Allied armies were thrown back in chaos and disarray, a state maintained by the dominance of German air power which constantlydisrupted and harried the retreating British and French units. By June the campaignwas over, the French eliminated and the British driven back across the English Channel. The success of the Germans had been staggering and the Luftwaffe  had played a significant part in the victory. Its fluid, flexible and concerted use of air power hadproved far more effective than the rigid dispersed doctrine of the French, but thismirrored the overall approach of the two powers. The Germans had achieved surpriseand, importantly, had been able to maintain the speed of their breakthrough, in part,by relying on the Luftwaffe  to provide support. The Allies were unable to respond quickly enough, because of unco-ordinated decision making, poorly considered planning and due to the intervention of the Luftwaffe ’s interdic