ndication of the level of air mindedness in interwar society.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 26 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 15Although not everyone shared Britain’s excessive concerns, significant measures were taken before and during the war to save society from collapse by providingdefence against air attack. The evidence of the new totality of war, precipitated by air attack, was there for all to see. Gas masks, air raid shelters, evacuation of children from cities, air raid wardens, blackout procedures, anti-aircraft gun batteries, barrage balloons,searchlights, air raid sirens, bomb damage, clear-up duties and many other measures were forced upon society by air attacks, or even the threat of such assaults. There was even an Air Raid Protection Institute set up in London with an attendant journal todisseminate all the latest thinking on equipment, gadgets and civil defence. The impact of air power on society during and even before the advent of the war was considerable and far reaching. However, far from causing the collapse of society as many argued it would, air attack actually forced the many strata and groups within even the most divided of communities to pull together in the interests of mutual survival. Indeed, air bombardmenthelped to consolidate opinions against enemies during war. Far from wanting to surrender or overthrow governments civilian populations demanded that their armed forces “give as good as they got”. T o a degree, resentment caused by bombing wasfocused on the enemy rather than on home governments. Indeed, some historians even go as far as to state that bombing of cities was counterproductive in that it hardened the resolve of populations and persuaded them to go on fighting. 16 It is clear that, far from fracturing societies and causing revolutions, air bombardment often pushed the bulk of the population together, at least superficially. Modern research has been presented that argues that too much has been made of this r