t of certain geographical, armed service and political circumstances, did strategic bombing really take root. Moreover, the nature of the doctrinal ideas codified in the RAF and the USAAF varied a gooddeal between each other and developed mostly in isolation, certainly without the influence of Douhet. However, in shaping the development of air forces and political attitudes to air power, especially in the 1930s, the idea of strategic bombing was a potent force, particularly in Britain and Germany and such issues will be dealt with in the next chapter. Generally, it can be seen that few believed air power had the ability to alter completely the nature of wars. At best it would be able to shape and influence ground and maritime war. Consideration in most armed forces turned to how best to use air power to support conventional war. Land based warfare While the advocates of strategic bombing spent the interwar era arguing that bombingof cities was the way in which a repetition of the Great War could be avoided, others sought to explain how the stalemate of 1914–18 had been broken and how mobility and fluidity could be restored to land warfare. It was soon to be argued that air power  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 94 --- THE DEVELOPMENT OF AIR POWER DOCTRINE AND THEORY 83was a constituent part of the formula required to bring speedy conclusions to land campaigns. Land warfare theorists such as J.F .C. Fuller and Basil Liddell-Hart, and theSoviet general Mikhail Tukhachevski, claimed that mobility and decisiveness could be brought back to ground warfare by the use of armoured vehicles, tanks, mobile artillery and, importantly, aircraft. The role of aircraft in supporting ground offensives was to be developed throughout the interwar period in a much more restrained and less hysterical manner than strategic bombing, and it was also to be supported by experience to a far greater level. It wasclearly much easier to develop doctrine and codify practice for ground suppor