ould have been a  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 175 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 164decision not to. Nobody in power considered such a revision of policy necessary until after the raid, and by then the achievements of RAF Bomber Command in particular had been tarnished. Moreover, the selection of targets in the eastern sector was taken over Harris’ head. He was merely directed to attack them when possible. It is also worth noting that in January and February 1945, the war was still being fiercely contested by the German armed forces. Although the final outcome may not have appeared to be in doubt, thecost of finishing the war was still high. The Red Army suffered 1,000,000 casualties in its winter/spring offensive to capture Berlin, and the western Allies had only recently fought off the German attack through the Ardennes that was to become known asthe Battle of the Bulge. In addition, all the Allies were becoming increasingly concerned about the lack of troop replacements arriving in their front-line units. Loss rates remained excessively high as the Germans continued to resist with determination.Quite simply, there was an understandable desire to end the war as quickly as possible to save Allied lives. What marks out the Dresden raid was the excessive brutality of its prosecution, which in the aftermath made even the Allied leadership flinch and made the protagonists seek a scapegoat. Harris, with his curious political naïveté,  was the willing fall guy as, to his credit, he stuck to his principles, however questionable they may have been, whenothers turned their backs, including Churchill. In contrast, the US 8th carried out a largely successful whitewash of its role in the Dresden raid, repeatedly playing the precision bombing card in the post-war years to prove its innocence. The reality wasthat the USAAF was following its late-war psychological knockout blow policy worked out back in 1942 and, in any case, in the prevailing poor European weathe