ely technically inferior. The aerial blitzkrieg,  more than anything, demonstrated that widening gulf between first rate air powers and other less well-equipped and advanced states. Countries suchas Germany, France, Britain and the USSR were able, in theory at least, to produce topclass air forces in large numbers but the other states upon which Germany cut its military teeth were not in the same league. Poland, Denmark, Norway, Netherlands, Belgium, Y ugoslavia and Greece simply did not have the technical ability or economiccapacity, or both, to offer serious aerial resistance to a well-equipped and broadlyprepared air force such as the Luftwaffe.  The real test of the Luftwaffe ’s early war effectiveness came during the French campaign, when technical, training and operationalcapability handed the German air force its greatest victory. However, its limitations as a major air power were demonstrated over the British Isles, its first campaign against a similarly competent air force, and over the vastness of the USSR, when the physicallimits of a broad based air force lacking deep-rooted support were met, reached andfound to be wanting. Maritime air power The role of air power in the maritime war between 1939 and 1945 appears to be oflittle significance when compared with the war over Europe itself. Indeed, the nature of maritime air power was largely dictated by the European war being a continental based conflict and direct confrontation between Axis and Allied maritime forces, bethey air or sea based was limited. Nevertheless, in one respect the deployment of airpower by the British was crucial to their survival in the war and, in another, demonstratedclearly the inadequacies of their surface based fleets when confronted with landbased air forces. In the Mediterranean, notable operations were carried out, particularly the Royal Navy’s raid on Taranto in 1940, but for the most part even this campaign was decided by land based confrontation. However, the Battle of th