fre in the lead up to the Marne, and by the British at Mons, and consequently led to a re-evaluation of the role of aircraft. The experience of the summer of 1914 convinced many ground forcecommanders of the value of aerial observers and they clamoured for more aircraft to be attached to their units. Expansion programmes followed and a greater emphasis was placed on aircraft types suitable for reconnaissance and observation. The value of aircraft in artillery direction began to be emphasized once the war had ground to a halt in the autumn of 1914, and new codes of practice were rapidly developed and introduced. The importance of artillery operations can be gauged byJoffre’s decision in September 1914 to switch the emphasis of air duties from reconnaissance to artillery spotting and direction, and for the rest of the war this remained the aircraft’s primary function. 19 Initially, there were many technical problems, for it proved very difficult to relay information back to the artillery units themselves from a moving aeroplane, again emphasizing the advantage of a fixed balloon with its physical tie to the ground. However, technological advances were made ranging from  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 61 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 50smoke signals, to lamps, to cumbersome wireless transmitters which until quite late in the war could only send messages and not receive them. The development of aerial photography should also be noted for the valuable information it gave to planners and staff officers. In 1914, the use of airborne cameras had been around for some time and many of the major powers had investigated their value on the outbreak of war. The Germans were the most advanced in his field and went to war in 1914 with 100 aerial cameras. By the end of hostilities photographic technology had improved considerably and images could be taken from as high as 15,000 feet.20 Photographs were rapidly distributed down the chain of command, even to the trenches