an economy. Lacking industrial and technological sophistication, Austria–Hungary wasalways, like Russia, likely to struggle to meet the challenge of air power development.As a measure of the growing importance of economics in war air power was a test thatthe largely agrarian and ramshackle empire was ultimately unable to meet. Interest inair power on the part of the army, as in most other powers, did take root quite early, however. The War Ministry took note of aircraft improvements at the Budapest Air Week of 1910 and subsequently argued for the expansion of the civil air industry tosupport future military development. The industry was reliant on foreign designs suchas, for example, the German Taube. Austro-Hungarian air power was boosted by the appointment of General von Auffenberg, who was an air power advocate. However, although hopes for the use of air power, and aerial culture in general flourished in Austria– Hungary, the restraining factor was to remain the indigenous aero-industry, which struggled to survive. Thefailings of home companies resulted in German firms such as DFW and Albatrossmoving in. Certainly, a lack of investment on the part of a conservative and parsimoniousWar Ministry was a contributory factor in the stunted growth of the home aircraftindustry, but with war looming Austria, perhaps more than any other state, had to concentrate its meagre resources on tried and tested military necessities. In the years leading up to 1914 this arguably did not include air power. On the outbreak of war, the Austro-Hungarian army could muster 40 aircraft and the navy approximately 15. Under the strain of industrial war, Austria was to strugglemore than any other great power to maintain and expand its air forces. 38 Italy As in many countries, Italian air power originated in the army engineers, where a number of airships were built between 1908 and 1909. An aviation school soon followedwith a grant of 10 million lira in 1910 based around home produced dirigib