rior to being thrown into the fray than their American and British counterparts. In the months leading up tothe Normandy landings the Luftwaffe  suffered grievous losses to its fighter arm, some 3,278 aircraft being lost resulting in a 78 per cent decline in strength. The battle for airsupremacy over Europe had been won and the Allied air forces were able, once theyhad fulfilled their commitments to D-Day, to pick and choose their targets over Germany at will. For the Germans, rapid defeat came, not as a result of events in 1944, but in part because of the failure to increase production and training programmes in 1940–42. The crucial nature of attrition and industry to air campaigns in total war was nobetter illustrated than the battle for air supremacy over Europe in 1944, and theinvestment in long-term air power expansion made by the Allies some years beforepaid huge dividends. 88 In retrospect, it seems strange that it took until mid-to-late 1943 for the Allies to accept that the only way to press home their bomber offensive effectively was to seize  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 173 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 162Table 6.4 – Flying hours in training programmes, 1939–45 Operational flying hours refers to fighter programme. Source:  Murray, Luftwaffe,  p. 314. control of the airspace over Germany by force. Y et the USAAF had a clear doctrine when they began their raids in 1942 and it was the failure of the heavily armedbomber formations in 1943 that convinced them that another solution was required.It was testament to the Allies’ technical and productive capabilities that the P-51Mustang, especially, could be adapted in such a short space of time, a feat that wouldhave been quite beyond the capacity of the German aero-industry. It was also truethat the introduction of the long-range escort brought the Combined Bomber Offensivemore into line with Allied grand strategy. By attacking the Luftwaffe  systematically, the USAAF’s policy brought huge adva