ormations as they travelled to and from their targets. The key to this was finding a fighter that would be able to fly to Berlin and back. 84  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 171 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 160Although the P-47 Thunderbolt was the first to give the Luftwaffe  a nasty shock in July 1943 by operating with fuel-filled drop-tanks well inside Germany, it was the P-51 Mustang design that was to transform the air war over Europe. Simple improvements to the internal fuel capacity, as well as the addition of drop-tanks, enabled the high- performance Mustang, along with the Thunderbolt and the twin-engine Lightning,to fly into German airspace with the US 8th’s bombers and begin tackling the German fighter arm in a series of bloody attritional battles. In January 1944 USAAF policy was altered to put their escort fighters on an offensive footing. It was their job to seek outthe Luftwaffe  while escorting the bombers and to do battle with them. Conversely, at the same time Goering ordered his fighter arm to take up a more careful and defensive posture when confronted by Allied escort fighters, to keep losses down. Adolf Galland,the Luftwaffe  fighter commander in western Europe, later claimed that this was a considerable error in judgement. 85 The breakthrough in the air campaign came in late-February 1944 in what was later titled “Big Week”. A period of clear weather allowed the USAAF to begin a series of substantial raids on German aircraft production plants, which continued into March and then switched to targeting oil production before being used to support theNormandy landings. The Luftwaffe  was forced to come up and fight and, although they inflicted heavy losses on the US bomber fleet (some 20 per cent were written- off in February), the cost to the German fighter arm was immense. 86 By attempting to intervene and engage the USAAF in air superiority battles the Luftwaffe  opened itself up to heavy “imposed” attrition, attrition which the U