s to prove disruptive.29 In September 1910 the French air arm’s aeroplanes proved their worth to the War Minister and to General Roques in a series of army field manoeuvres, the first to  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 43 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 32involve aircraft. Notably, the airships available for the manoeuvres were unable to fly owing to the weather conditions, contributing to their fall from favour within the French military. The fact that Imperial Germany, France’s arch-rival, was viewed as the chief exponent of the airship also did little to aid the airship’s case. Roques was toclaim afterwards that aircraft were now indispensable to military operations. 30 He went on to head the Inspectorate of Military Aviation established in October 1910 to oversee all aerial matters in the French military. By 1912 he was arguing that thedevelopment of offensive aerial weaponry was the next crucial stage, as air combat and bombing would be of importance in a future war. Consequently he ordered special tests to investigate the use of bombing aircraft against troop formations. His successorColonel Hirschauer presided over a series of manoeuvres involving 60 aircraft in 1912 and the General Staff’s conclusions stated that aircraft were suitable for a wide variety of battlefield roles, though low level operations might be hazardous. Although its aviation lead was maintained, the French air arm suffered from a number of distractions in 1913 and 1914 that served to weaken its superiority. Hirschauer was involved in a controversy in 1913 centred upon the role and nature of air powerand which eventually led to his replacement. 31 Thus, control of air forces in France once again became the subject of debate with arguments for more central direction of air power aligned against those who argued for more autonomy. The state of the French aeroplane industry was a key factor in the debate. As in Britain, moves were afoot to bring aircraft production under central c