degree demonstrated that the British had not yet come to terms with the growing link between the military and industrial enterprise and innovation, especially in new technological areas such as air power. The naval air wing did not become properly independent until it was developed into the Royal Naval Air Service (RNAS) in 1914, but its procurement policy was different to the army air wing in that it relied on private aircraft manufacturers for itssupply of aeroplanes. The naval air wing was initially instructed to abandon the development of the airship on grounds of cost, until another Zeppelin scare forced a change of policy. However, the cost of airship development was prohibitive and at the  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 47 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 36outbreak of war in August 1914 British airship strength did not compare favourably with that of Germany. Nevertheless, naval air power development had led to the testing of a cruiser acting as a seaplane tender and in September 1914 a fully fledged seaplane carrier, HMS Ark Royal,  was launched. Generally, Britain’s aircraft industry was small and unprepared for the outbreak of war. Although certain high quality designs were under development, the poor state of British aero-engine production was a serious problem and the Royal Flying Corps (RFC – the army air wing) and the RNAS were largely dependent on French engines. Aware of the gap between Britain and Europe, Frederick Sykes (later Chief of the Air Staff) and others fostered close links with the press in an effort to raise the proffie of the RFC, with some success. However, attitudes to air power varied. Some were far sighted and sanguine such as Frederick Lanchester, whilst others, Douglas Haig included, saw little prospect of aircraft being of any value in the war, though contrary to popular belief he was later to change his opinion. The majority however, recognized that aircraft, especially in the field of reconnaissance, would be of some