fe  to provide support. The Allies were unable to respond quickly enough, because of unco-ordinated decision making, poorly considered planning and due to the intervention of the Luftwaffe ’s interdiction operations which prevented rapid movement and response by defending forces. In marked contrast tothe Ludendorff breakthrough in 1918, which outdistanced its supports and waseventually pummelled by redeployed Allied artillery, the 1940 offensive never allowed  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 141 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 130the Allies enough time to reorganize and this was partly as a result of the suppressing effect of German air attack and the inability of the French and British air forces to prevent it. However, the shortcomings of the Luftwaffe  were soon to be exposed by the RAF . The first indications had come during the Dunkirk evacuation of 25 May to 2 June 1940. Goering had argued that the Luftwaffe  would be able to smash the fleeing British on the Dunkirk beaches and in the English Channel but it was prevented from doingso by the intervention of modern and well-equipped RAF fighters. The limited range of the Bf 109, which was operating from bases some distance from Dunkirk, and the vulnerability of the Luftwaffe ’s bombers to British fighters became all too clear. The Luftwaffe  lost 240 aircraft to the RAF’s 177. For a numerically much superior force this was hardly a catastrophe, but it was a rude shock to the Luftwaffe  as well as a foretaste of things to come. Moreover, due to the limited powers of recovery of the Germanaero-industry, these were losses which could not be sustained indefinitely, especially in light of the high attritional rates even a victorious air campaign such as that in France incurred. (Losses had been around 30 per cent. 15) The attempt to spearhead the invasion of the British Isles with the Luftwaffe  was a plan that had already been discussed and rejected by the German Air Ministry in 1939.16 Nevertheless, in v