de Havilland, Frederick Handley-Page and the Short brothers. Northcliffe, recently a visitor to the Reims airshow, was not satisfied. He published widely on the subject of air attack and vigorously supported the creation of the Aerial League of the British Empire in 1909. Further Zeppelin scares prompted the creationof a parliamentary committee on aeronautics but little was done until 1911. By that time, four aerodromes were in operation and both the army and the navy were beginning to take an active interest in air power. The army developed their BalloonSchool into an air battalion with 13 aircraft and three airships. Naval air power suffered a setback when a large airship was wrecked before flying, but then received a boost with the appointment of Winston Churchill, an ardent advocate of air power, as FirstLord of the Admiralty. Under growing pressure to do more, the government instructed the CID to investigate the role of air power in military and naval operations again. The aviation budget hadrisen from £9,000 in 1909 to £131,000 in 1911 and by 1913 it had reached £500,000. 36 In 1912 both the army and the navy set up air services which were to expand steadilyin the years leading up to war. Already involved were names who would later shapeand influence the growth of air power on an international scale, men such as future RAF Chiefs of the Air Staff, Frederick Sykes and Hugh Trenchard. The Royal Flying Corps, established by the army, attempted to formulate doctrine and press ahead withaircraft procurement. Unlike their European competitors, the British attempted to control aircraft development through the Royal Aircraft Factory at Farnborough, a policy which came close to destroying private aeroplane development. The policyaroused considerable consternation and to a degree demonstrated that the British had not yet come to terms with the growing link between the military and industrial enterprise and innovation, especially in new technological areas such as air po