co-Prussian War (1870–71) that provoked real European interest in military air forces. Although only limited numbers of balloons were used in the war, balloon mail was employed by the French during the siege of Paris, as was the dropping of propaganda leaflets over Prussian lines.10 Over the next two decades, French, British, German, Italian, American, Austrian and Russian balloon forces were established. Both the British and Italians even used balloons in imperial roles in the late nineteenth century. The airship – the arrival of controlled flight The next major step in the development of air power was the dirigible airship: effectively a powered balloon capable of flying in any direction with little thought to the wind  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 36 --- THE BIRTH OF AIR POWER 25direction, which had thus far dictated the manner of balloon flight. As early as 1852, the Frenchman Henri Giffard had built and flown a form of steam powered airship with limited directional capabilities. The arrival of the gas engine in the 1860s resulted in new airship designs, but it was in the 1870s that airship development began in earnest. In 1872, the French government procured a large non-rigid airship (basically a semi-directional balloon) designed by Stanislas Dupoy de Lome. An airship designed by Paul Haenlein later that year achieved an airspeed of 9 mph. By 1888 the Germans Gottlieb Daimler and Dr Karl Wolfert introduced a petrol fired engine to power their airship, and this soon attracted the interest of the Kaiser. In 1897 Wolfert demonstrated his latest airship, but the display ended in disaster when the airship exploded killing both occupants. The use of a petrol fired engine close to a huge pocket of highly volatile hydrogen was to remain, unsurprisingly, a major concern of airship designers. The first rigid airship (where the hydrogen envelope was supported and protected by an aluminium frame) was designed by the Austrian David Schwartz. The inaugural flight of