ityof the Allied air forces. German accounts and reports of the war in the West from 1943onwards repeatedly claim that air power was the key to Allied success. Even thoughcasualty rates in the ground forces during the Normandy campaign were high (equalling and surpassing those of the Somme offensive of 1916), they would have been decidedly higher, and the forces deployed would have had to have been that much larger, toachieve victory without the level of air support that existed in 1944. 69 The key to this success of air power was the destruction of the Luftwaffe  from the middle of 1943 onwards, for without air supremacy the Allied tactical air forces wouldhave had to engage in costly air superiority battles. This would have seriously undermined air support for ground operations and quite possibly compromised the Operation Overlord campaign. The ability of an air force merely to contest air superiority at critical momentswas fundamental to the role that air power could play in ground operations. Denyingprolonged periods of air superiority to the enemy and maintaining a presence overthe battlefield greatly reduced the effectiveness of army air support. It was this inabilityof the Luftwaffe  to pose any kind of threat to the Allied forces as they swept across France that undermined the considerable efforts of the German army. The bombing offensive and Allied strategy The strategic bombing offensives against Germany and Japan during the Second World War have provoked more comment and debate than any other air campaign inthe short history of air power. Both on an ethical and a strategic level the rights andwrongs of the offensives have been the subject of a long succession of books, memoirsand articles and will almost certainly continue to elicit speculation and discussion. Clearly, the revolutionary nature of strategic bombing in widening and deepening modern war has been the factor which has set it apart from other uses of air power. In terms of strategic bombing’s i