y by the US 8th Air Force following the introduction of the long-range escort, the P-51 Mustang. Thefighter losses suffered by the Luftwaffe  between January and June 1944 were immense: 2,262 pilots were killed, and in March alone 56 per cent of the available German fighters were lost. 57 The disparity in the air forces available for the invasion of France was immense: the Allies could call on 12,000 aircraft to the Luftwaffe ’s 300.58 True air supremacy was assured. The only concerted effort by the Luftwaffe  to intervene in the western theatre from 1944 onwards came during the Ardennes offensive in December1944. Self-inflicted failings such as shifting operational priorities, the lack of co-ordinated air and ground planning, no clear doctrine of air power employment and poor leadership combined with overwhelming Allied air power and Ultra decrypt warnings to cripple Luftwaffe  efforts. Their intervention came to nothing. 59 Allied air forces were crucial in preparing the ground for the invasion by crippling the French transportation network with heavy and medium bomber raids from thespring of 1944 onwards, the first major use of the strategic bomber force in an operational support role. From D-minus-46 a concerted bridge destruction campaign was initiated to break routes over the Loire and the Seine, and by D-minus-21 efforts were in handfor the reduction of Luftwaffe  forces and airbases in Northern France. Airborne troops covered the flanks of the Operation Overlord  landings themselves, fighters swept the skies of Luftwaffe  resistance and bombers targeted strongpoints along the coast of Normandy. 60 The RAF’s Second Tactical Air Force and the USAAF’s 9th Air Force played a crucial role in Normandy, perhaps more significant than any other army air supportcampaign of the war. The Allies’ ground forces struggled in two particular ways. First,their operational effectiveness was markedly inferior to their German counterpartsowing to a combination of: minimal or non