ive freedom to intervene for a short time in a restricted area. However, enemy response was rapid and, once air superiority was being contested, the ability ofaircraft to act decisively against ground forces fell away markedly. Even in the 1950s when air power in the nuclear world had gained a position unparalleled in the history of conflict it could not be that effective in the tactical oroperational sense because of many political, ethical and moral restraints. Moreover, the value of strategic nuclear forces was largely limited to their deterrent effect, it being discovered that power of that magnitude was unusable in anything other thansuperpower confrontations. Indeed, the ability of air forces to destroy whole cities is  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 22 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 11only power if it is perceived that the arm will be used and, as was ably demonstrated in the Korean War, few in authority had the stomach for such mass slaughter. Thepost-war world has illustrated that air power is a weapon of total war and, when restraint has to be shown, its significance falls away dramatically. Gaining air supremacy was the key to using air power to its full potential but such control was rarely attained. In part this was because the advantage lay with the defender in any air superiority battle. Offensive air battles often took place over enemy territory where fighters and bombers would aim to neutralize the enemy air forces and thuswin at least air superiority. Once such control was achieved and air forces had the ability to intervene in land operations at will, the effectiveness of air power to be decisive increased dramatically. However, it proved much easier in both world wars toprevent the enemy from gaining such air superiority for any length of time, thus denying them air supremacy. By fighting defensive air battles over friendly territory, damaged aircraft had a much greater chance of returning to base, thus saving equipmentand, more impo