rld War I and II.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 32 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 21Conclusion Air power more than any other arm in the twentieth century epitomized total war. It brought the realities of war home to the civilian population for the first time, resultingin the mass militarization of society on a scale unknown in the modern world. The needs of defence against air attack were huge, both materially and psychologically. Hitler foresaw a time when every family in Germany would have an anti-aircraft gunin their back garden both as a real and a symbolic statement of the desire to fight on. Although it never quite came to that, the impact of air power on society was deep and lingering. The fear of air attack in the 1930s shaped defence and even foreign policyand though the real impact of air power in the Second World War was nothing like as dreadful as some had predicted, it was still enough to trouble the conscience of western civilization in the post-war period. This led to what some have curiously andinaccurately described as “total peace”. Nevertheless, images of Dresden and Hiroshima, however distorted by the debates of the passing years, still weaken the perception of Allied success for many people. Y et perhaps such air power, the most vivid facet of total war, was an essential part of victory. The new totality of war made heavy demands on economies and societies, demands that ultimately only the Allies in the world wars could meet. By using airpower to batter and drain Germany and Japan of material and technological resources, the Allies were able to gain significant advantages. The fascist dictatorships were not particularly suited to the demands of total war, and ultimately it was the responsibilityof the Allies to use such a form of war to win. Paradoxically, the most effective exponents of air war in the first stages of World War II were the Axis powers themselves, but they sought to use it, along with other new arms, as a way of ev