f the war. The Allies’ ground forces struggled in two particular ways. First,their operational effectiveness was markedly inferior to their German counterpartsowing to a combination of: minimal or non-existent battle experience, compared tothe Germans’ five years or so; an inability to concentrate massed artillery firepower to support land offensives; and the inadequacies of Allied armour, which in sharp contrast to aircraft, was decidedly inferior to German equivalents. 61 The Allied advance from the beachheads acquired on D-Day itself was slow and painful and pre-invasion estimatesproved to be highly optimistic. Montgomery, the field commander, suffered considerable criticism prior to the Cobra  breakout from the American sector of the front at the end  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 162 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 151of July, but he was unwilling to expend his army’s diminishing manpower resources in attritional frontal attacks if he could avoid it. This was the second major restraining influence on the Allied forces.62 Air power was the key to solving these basic military and political problems. The Allies’ crushing superiority in the air was most certainly a key factor in the success ofthe Normandy campaign. German forces were hindered and attacked throughoutthe battle and the offensive against the logistical support of the Wehrmacht  and SS troops was enormously successful. In general, the Allies won the campaign by a process of heavy attrition, which was often inflicted by Allied aircraft on German units asthey advanced towards the battlefront and when they attempted to counterattack. 63 The success story of ground support air power was again the fighter-bomber which proved the most potent aerial weapon, easily surpassing the effect of medium- andheavy-bomber raids, although latterly, and on occasion, these were usefully deployed. 64 Allied fighter-bombers, of which the RAF’s Hawker T yphoon and the USAAF’sRepublic P-47 Thunderbolt were the main exam