y blockade and bombing. Moreover, the Japanese military forces imposed themselves forcefully on the means of production, distorting and hindering the process still further. In addition, and unlike the European Axis nations, the Japanesesuffered from the rivalry of two air forces – the army’s and the navy’s – compounding the problems by duplicating the interference. This latter issue manifested itself in a number of areas. For example, the IJN and the army failed to co-ordinate procurement policies, thus resulting in a large number of aircraft types being adopted, all requiring different support services and spare parts. During the war, the Japanese produced 53 basic naval aircraft types (with 112 variations)and 37 army designs (with 52 variations). In contrast, the USA deployed 18 models for the army and navy combined, thus allowing much simpler logistical support and enhancing the concentration of production. 22 In addition, the army and navy could not agree on types of electrical equipment and components, forcing industry to produce double the number of jigs and tools for production.23 Still further, the navy and army, conscious of the scarcity of resources, even in the early stages of the war,established links with their own suppliers and tapped sources of raw materials which they guarded jealously from each other, to the point of hoarding surplus materials even when desperately required by the other service. Interference in the productionprocess by the military was common, as it was considered that manufacturers and capitalists were not to be trusted, and in any case the opinions and ideas of those at the front-line were of more value. Consequently, production was continually disruptedto incorporate new ideas and modifications. However, of more significance was the lack of central planning and organization in the Japanese aero-industry. Demonstrating once again the lack of understanding ofthe demands and nature of modern industrial war, the Japanese had no consi