eting interests and struggling power groups. Debate will continue as to whetherthis was deliberately engineered by Hitler in order to retain power, or as seems morelikely, that such confusion reigned because of the inefficiency and inadequacies ofthe Nazi regime. But it is sufficient to state that it was not conducive to effectiveproduction management, especially in the field of air power, more reliant than anyother on the close co-ordination and integration of various parts of the economy andstate. The problem was not aided by the power wielded by the military over theproduction process and the inability of Goering to restrain the competing parts of hispersonal empire. One facet of the German failure was Goering’s placement of partylackeys in important positions, positions for which they were clearly not suited. 34 It has even been argued that poor organization and planning led to more productionbeing squandered than was lost to Allied bombing. 35 Inefficiencies in production were not aided by the German preoccupation with diversity and technical excellence. Both are ultimately requirements in modern warfare– a suitable variety of high quality equipment necessary to do the job – but balancemust be maintained as to the level at which pursuit of the most effective designs startsto undermine front-line strength. Y et again, it was a lesson learned well by the Allies,but never clearly understood by the Axis powers. Whereas the Allies standardizedaround a small number of aircraft designs of sufficient military capability, the Germanprocurement process resulted in the development of 86 models, fatally dissipatingeffort and technical ability. 36 In this, the role of Ernst Udet was particularly important, prone as he was to manipulation by eager aircraft manufacturers. The results of hisinadequacies became clearer when Erhard Milch returned to prominence in 1941,following Udet’s suicide. Milch was effectively forced to abandon the next generationof aircraft being developed