e VVS as a result of the poor showing in the Winter War against Finland in 1939–40. This was stillunderway when Germany invaded. Nevertheless, with a strength of some 10,000aircraft in June 1941, the VVS was able to absorb horrendous casualties, with over half its force destroyed on the ground in the early stages of the campaign, and still recover, demonstrating the depth of the industrial base and central organization forged duringthe 1930s. Italian air power flattered to deceive throughout the 1930s, and while the Regia Aeronautica  (RA) pontificated on strategy and won plaudits for its technical capability, it eventually came to near disaster in the campaigns of 1940–43. Problems had begun to emerge in the RA in the 1930s for a number of reasons. First, like other right-wing dictatorships, the leader, in this case Mussolini, took an active and unhelpful interest in military affairs. Il Duce attempted to keep control of all three services but was of course unable to maintain an effective direction in Italian defence policy making. Moreover, his contradictory ideas of a traditional rural based community sat in stark  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 132 --- GLOBAL AIR POWER, 1918–39 121contrast to his ambitious overseas plans of conquest, which of course required a thriving modern industrial economy. Secondly, the Italian aero-industry suffered badly in the economic recession of the early 1930s and the fascist economy’s response wasto become introspective and isolated. This merely led to it falling behind the rest ofthe major world air powers as the decade progressed and, by the outbreak of war,Italian engines in particular lagged behind their major adversaries. Thirdly, the lessonsof the Spanish Civil War passed unnoticed by the RA. While the Germans and the Soviets learned a great deal, the Italians were protected from their own inadequacies by German efficiency and know-how and by the failings of the aircrew they faced.Thus, the fact that they were confronte