Soviet Union, contemporary air power has been confronted with a radically altered environment and one in which two extremes of operationshave been illustrated. First, throughout most of the 1990s, air power has been impotent in the Balkans, for many of the reasons that befuddled US involvement in Vietnam and Soviet intervention in Afghanistan. A lack of clear political goals, no identification ofattainable military objectives and a hostile and volatile operating environment have all conspired to limit what air forces could offer. Clearly, air power has a significant role to play in such peacekeeping or low intensity campaigns, in terms of transport, air mobility,resupply and intelligence gathering. However, fire support in an environment such as Bosnia could only be limited, for political reasons. In sharp contrast, air power was heralded as the key factor in Allied victory in the Gulf War of 1990–91. There is littledoubt that the ground force’s job was rendered little more than a mopping up operation  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 229 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 218after the highly effective aerial bombardment both of Iraqi military and strategic metropolitan targets. If an example of Douhet’s thesis was needed this was surely it,argued many air power advocates in the aftermath of the overwhelming success. However, neither Bosnia nor the Gulf have offered conclusive proof of anything. Iraq offered a conventional target in a helpful operating environment and the Allies held hugequalitative and quantitative advantages in equipment and personnel. Air supremacy was never in doubt and, with a relatively clear political objective and a mandate to use considerable force, the Allies were able to deploy conventional air power to the full. Inother circumstances there is little evidence to support the notion that air power would be as decisive. Future air power forces are clearly going to need a high degree of flexibility to meet requirements for operations a