ctical air supremacy over Europe as well as conducting a major  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 179 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 168strategic bombing campaign and creating ground forces capable of mounting the D- Day landings. The “resource” argument holds only if another use for such resources could be found that would have contributed more significantly to a more rapid Alliedvictory than strategic bombing, and those cited arguably would not. There is little doubt that the strategic bombing offensive contributed greatly to Allied victory in World War II. However, the debate is so wrapped up in ethical andmoral issues that the reality has been clouded by post-war indignation, in particular over the bombing of Dresden, T okyo and of course the atomic bombings of Japan. In isolation the deaths of half-a-million German civilians as a result of aerial bombing inWorld War II when the war had to be won by Allied ground forces anyway seemsobscene. Y et, when the war as a whole is considered and the wider implications of thebomber offensive appreciated, the justifications offered for the actions of the RAFand the USAAF in aiding Allied victory and defeating the Nazi regime are understandable. In strategic terms, the necessity and value of the combined bombing offensive to Allied victory is irrefutable. Conclusions The Second World War was undoubtedly the high point of so-called “total war”.More than any other conflict, the demands made of a nation’s resources – industrial,scientific and indeed moral – between 1939 and 1945 were immense. The sheer scaleof the war at first seems to be the cause of its totality, with 40 million people dead, whole nations devastated and the end of the European order being some of the illustrations. However, in addition to the size of the conflict, the Second World War wastotal because of the nature of the fighting, and perhaps the single most importantchange was brought about by the coming of age of air power. Brutal and bloodthir