pt the problem that had been bequeathed to it by the switch to nuclear defence in the early-to-mid-1950s. Massive retaliation also brought problems for NATO. In the 1950s the Europeans were struggling to expand their contribution to conventional defence and the emergence of nuclear deterrence in part allowed them, like the USA, to evade the question of dealing with such problems. Europe came to rely first on US strategicnuclear defence, and secondly, on the use of tactical nuclear weapons to deter or even defeat an Eastern Bloc invasion, even though this latter case was likely to embroil the USA in a nuclear war with the USSR. Although the Europeans were to remainnervous about US commitment to such a scenario, it proved difficult to wean them off reliance on nuclear defence at all levels. Most importantly, however, massive retaliation was severely undermined by the rapid emergence of a viable Soviet nuclear arsenal, both strategic and tactical, in the years following the instigation of Eisenhower’s New Look. The credibility of America’s nuclear deterrent only existed while the USSR could not strike back in a similarfashion. Once this was no longer the case, the likelihood of the USA launching a massive nuclear strike against the USSR, and thus themselves suffering the consequences of a Soviet counterstrike, was slim. And by the middle of the 1950s the Soviet Unionhad such a capability.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 220 --- AIR POWER AND THE POST -WAR WORLD 209The rise of Soviet strategic air power Despite the blasé acceptance of the existence of the atomic bomb at the Potsdam meeting in July 1945, Stalin had been desperately driving forward a programme tobuild a Soviet atomic bomb to negate the threat of an American device. The level of the mobilization of a weakened Soviet economy in the post-war era is testimony to the importance attached to the acquisition of a comparable device to the Americanbomb. The demands made on Soviet investment at a time when rec