ey_total.pdf --- Page 166 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 155oil. Secondly, Britain was to adopt a policy of subversion, which included the raising of underground armies across Europe which would rise up at the appropriate moment to link up with a returning British army. The way would be prepared by theundermining of morale in Germany itself by a combination of covert activity andpropaganda, and the third strand to British strategy, strategic bombing. Bombing wouldcripple the German economy, weaken the resolve of the people and bring the Nazistate to the point of collapse, at which point the underground army would rise up, and the British liberator army would return to Europe to mop up resistance. In retrospect, the strategy was clearly constructed out of desperation and blind faith, for it relied on three routes to victory, two of which (bombing and subversion)had never really been tried before and the other (blockade) that had only ever workedin conjunction with traditional military offensives. The need for strategic bombing towork was clear: without it, and in a world where Britain and the Commonwealth were still acting alone, there was no hope of victory – merely survival. The importance was famously stated by Churchill in July 1940 when he claimed that the only way forBritain to defeat Germany in the circumstances of 1940 was to crush Hitler’s statewith “. . . an absolutely devastating exterminating attack by very heavy bombers”. 72 There were other pressing political forces at play. Churchill realized that Britain had to be seen to be acting aggressively in some way against Germany or morale at home would suffer. The belief among the population that the Germans were handing out crushing blows at will, against which the British could not respond at all, would eataway at the people’s resolve and undermine all future efforts. The British people hadto know and had to be shown that the armed forces were still fighting and that theGerman population was suffering too.