y at the people’s resolve and undermine all future efforts. The British people hadto know and had to be shown that the armed forces were still fighting and that theGerman population was suffering too. Still further, Churchill realized the vital necessity of eliciting US support and, importantly, material aid. Such help might well be compromised if the USA did not consider Britain reasonably secure and capable of furthering American political aims.The strategic bombing offensive was perhaps the only way of demonstrating to theRoosevelt administration that Britain was still fighting and was worth supporting. T othis end it was arguably successful, considering the US government’s attitude towardsair power. 73 In a similar manner, once the USSR had become embroiled in the war, the bombing offensive was the only realistic means the British had for supporting the Soviet struggle,however indirectly and limited it may have been. Stalin repeatedly called firstly for theBritish and then the USA to invade northwest Europe to relieve pressure on the Eastern Front. The British understood that if the Soviets considered they were fighting  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 167 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 156Hitler single-handedly their resolve might crumble resulting in either surrender or some form of political deal. Strategic bombing of German cities was sold to Stalin,especially during his meeting with Churchill in 1942, as a realistic and important method of defeating Hitler. Indeed, Stalin was more impressed by the levelling of German cities by Allied bombers than by the arrival of Anglo-American forces innorthwest Africa in November 1942 ( Operation Torch ). 74 The USA did not need to rely on bombing to achieve victory. Although Roosevelt and his administration had become enthusiastic supporters of air power, and althoughthe USAAF had been planning to conduct a strategic bombing campaign since the 1920s, there was no necessity for it to succeed. Nevertheless, Ch