e end of the Great War brought major change to the face of Europe and, as states collapsed and emerged, so the effects were felt by their armed forces. Austria–Hungary had disintegrated and so too did its already struggling aero-industry. By 1919 neither Austria nor Hungary, by now separate states, had managed to keep any significant aircraft manufacturers in operation. The German air industry was still in reasonable shape by November 1918 but the Treaty of Versailles saw the effective dismantling of military air power in Germany by 1920. Civil aviation continued but limits were placed on the performance of such aircraft by worried Allied observers and the Germans persisted in finding ways around the restrictive limitations placed on them by the Allies. Paradoxically, the constraints and duress under which the Reichswehr  had to develop air power, in close collaboration with civil aviation, forged close links between the military and the aero-industry itself, links which were to aid open rearmament in the 1930s.1 German air power also survived thanks to close ties with the Soviet Union, a secret product of the Treaty of Rapallo signed in 1922. The USSR required an input of modern technology to boost its flagging home aero-industry and wanted to glean as much as possible from the German military about their World War I experience andtheir ideas for the future of air power. The Germans, determined to keep some form of link with modern military air power, needed somewhere beyond the prying eyes of the Western Allies to carry out tests and to gain practical military flying experience. A pilot school and air testing centre were set up at Lipetsk, some 220 miles from Moscow, and the Reichswehr  invested heavily in the formation of the airbase. T o avoid flouting the Treaty of Versailles, officers sent to the Soviet Union for air training were temporarily retired from the German army, only to be reactivated on their return. 2 Therefore, under the shrewd stewardship of Gene