tical duties, emphasizing the lesson of World War I that such duties were decidedly dangerous.22 Generally, the campaign yet again indicated the vulnerability of ground forces to air attack if friendly air forces either did not exist or were unable to contest air superiority. However, it was concluded by American observers and analysts that, although air power had been of tremendous help and had probably brought about a speedy end to the conflict, it was not decisive. Clearly, the aerial bombing attacks had not brought about the collapse of Ethiopian resistance. In general, the air power campaigns conducted by the western powers around the globe had proved a number of important points. The most significant was the distinction between modern, industrial military strength and traditional, man-power based forces – a distinction now clearer and more divisive than ever before. Indigenous, non- industrial societies had no real answer to the aeroplane. They could on occasion deal with modern infantry, limited artillery and even tanks, but aircraft were on a different level, not necessarily in terms of the actual physical damage they could inflict, but intheir psychological impact. It was clear that an army backed by air power had a distinct and considerable advantage over an army lacking such support. The colonial campaigns indicated that armies with no defence against properly organized air forces could not operate effectively, and thus air power, while not capable of winning campaigns single-handedly, was a pivotal factor. The effects of the imperial campaigns on home based air power were strictly limited. Although it was more ammunition for the air power advocates, the air forces themselves learnt very little and operations against poorly armed rebel forces were no measure of effectiveness against modern armed forces. However, the strategy of deploying air forces in imperial roles did lead to a few minor distortions. The RAF’s maritime air force concentrated on long-ran