ly, the famous Shturmovik was quitevulnerable to high-performance fighters, but its heavy armour gave it excellent protection against anti-aircraft gunfire. As the land offensives swung backwards and forwards across Russia, new types of ordnance appeared in the VVS’s inventory between 1942and 1943, causing consternation in the Wehrmacht.  Air-to-ground rockets and hollow- charge anti-armour bombs, coupled with the ever increasing numbers of Shturmoviks, and supported overhead by increasingly aggressive VVS fighters, handed localized airsuperiority to the Soviets wherever they required it. However, their strategy was notably different from their western counter-parts. It was never considered essential, or indeed feasible to attain complete air supremacyacross the Eastern Front in the way the combined tactical western air forces sought to dominate western Europe. In part this was also due to the doctrine of tying the VVS to close air support operations only, and thus this prevented a more concerted airstrategy from developing. The VVS was used to support the ground offensives by adding its weight to the massive and concentrated firepower the Red Army was able to bring to bear against the Wehrmacht  by 1943. VVS fighters were deployed primarily to attain local air superiority over the battlefield and prevent the Luftwaffe  from intervening with any effect. This was certainly successful, but was limited in objective and the Luftwaffe  was arguably able to survive on the Eastern Front in a way that the RAF and the USAAF never allowed it to in the West. It is notable that diminishing German air resources were deployed on the Eastern Front from the late summer of 1944 because they could survive and have some effect there, while in the West they would be wiped out. However, the VVS’s strategy, or more accurately the Red Army’s strategy, should not be criticized unduly. The scale of operations over the Eastern Front was vast, a factor  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 15