orces together with reshaped operational practices and amajor shake up in personnel. Initially, however, he encountered the same problemsthat had confounded Hansell, and although morale in his force had improved, resultsremained disappointing. The move towards area bombing with incendiaries, which transformed the whole campaign, was to come largely at the prompting of LeMay himself, even though Arnold remained committed to precision raids on Japanese aero-industry plants.Recognizing the need for a change and being aware of Arnold’s incapacity to intervenequickly due to ill-health, LeMay gambled with new tactics. For Operation Meetinghouse, the first mass-firebombing raid on T okyo in March 1945, LeMay switched to night-time area attacks at low-level with reduced defensive armament, to increase payload. Moreover, following encouraging reports of incendiary raids in February, LeMay switched to using firebombs en masse.  It had long been accepted that Japanese cities, constructed of highly combustible materials, would burn easily. The new tactics reduced wear andtear on the B-29’s still temperamental engines and, importantly, exploited deficienciesin Japanese low-level anti-aircraft defences and the lack of suitable night-timeinterceptors. Although the stated aim was to attack industrial and strategic targets, this in reality equated to area bombing of urban areas in similar fashion to the RAF’s bombing of Germany. 57 The results were both appalling and spectacular. In the firebombing of T okyo around 100,000 died in quite the most awful circumstances, with many suffocatingfrom the lack of oxygen or dying from the intense heat caused by the firestorm.Others tried to escape by jumping into rivers, but quite often the water itself was boiling, resulting in further grisly carnage. American crews were shocked and repulsed by the sight of people being incinerated by napalm, and many wore their oxygenmasks to escape the sickening stench of burning flesh. The attack proved al