f time, thus denying them air supremacy. By fighting defensive air battles over friendly territory, damaged aircraft had a much greater chance of returning to base, thus saving equipmentand, more importantly, pilots and aircrew. For example, during the Battle of Britain, RAF personnel could be recovered whereas Luftwaffe  crew were taken prisoner and their aircraft lost. Unlike land battles where successful offensives forced the enemy toretreat and allowed the recovery of tanks, equipment and casualties, air battles, even when successful, resulted in high levels of attrition. These largely unrecoverable losses could be disastrous, for training investment in air personnel was much higher than inother armed forces. In comparison, defending against air attack proved to be much cheaper, and smaller defensive forces could often hold tactical and operational advantages. In winning airsuperiority over Europe, the Allies were forced to invest far greater resources than it cost the Germans to defend their air space. Ultimately, the Axis air forces were defeated in long battles of attrition and the Allies were successful because they could absorbthe losses whereas the Germans could not. Thus, the ability to contest air superiority was the key to preventing the enemy from using air power to its full potential and it was the key to allowing friendly aircraft to intervene in the operations of hostileforces. However, once air power capability was lost in a large scale war it was almost impossible to re-enter the battle in the air with any purpose. Thus, there was a fine line between maintaining a minimum but vital level of air effort, and total disaster. However, even when air power could be used to the full, it could only function within certain parameters. In the age of total war there was only so much that either strategic or tactical air forces could do to influence the outcome of the war. Indeed,the Allies won air supremacy over Germany by the spring of 1944, long before the