Soviet and western Allied forces. Japan, similarly, slid to defeat: as initial air superiority was frittered away or sacrificed in attritional battles, so effective and sustained belligerency drained away and ultimately Japanese civilians and cities were to pay the price for such shortcomings. By World War II, air power dictated the conduct of operations in almost all theatres of war. Only on the Eastern Front did aircraft play a supportive role, largely for economic and geographical reasons. Elsewhere, success was virtually unthinkablewithout air supremacy, or at least the ability to contest air superiority for a sustained period. Air power alone was not enough to win. It had to be integrated into an overall combined arms strategy. But it did more than any other arm to prepare and spearheadthe road to victory. However, air power did more than recast the face of battle. More than any other force, it impacted markedly on the nature of industrial war. Both world wars requiredmassive mobilization and effort from the whole “body” of the nation, and aero- industries in particular, made specific and concentrated demands because of the high levels of attrition and particular types of resources required to maintain air campaigns. For the western Allies, air strength was a measure of their success. In both world conflicts they realized more than Germany and her allies, that the route to victory lay in mass-production. In the interwar period, with war looming again, Britain and theUSA built the foundations of their expanding aero-industries, in a way that Germany could and would not mirror. The Allies realized that “total war” made far greater and more specific requirements of an economy and, in particular, that air power made thegreatest demands, not only in simple levels of resources, but also in the nature and type of technological, scientific and industrial effort required. The Allies, the Soviet Union included, understood what sacrifices would have to be made and accordi