nage. American crews were shocked and repulsed by the sight of people being incinerated by napalm, and many wore their oxygenmasks to escape the sickening stench of burning flesh. The attack proved all toovividly what the USAAF could do as T okyo was devastated and one million peoplemade homeless. 58 T o compound the disaster, the Japanese were totally incapable of combating such raids and by early June, Nagoya, Kobe, Osaka, Y okohama and Kawasaki had followed T okyo into ashes. Over 40 per cent of the urban areas of these cities were devastated and during June, July and August many minor Japanese cities went the same way.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 205 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 194There was no real attempt to rein in LeMay, even when General Spaatz was sent to the Pacific to command the 20th Air Force. The programme was well established andhad been fully endorsed by Arnold and the USAAF staff in America. Justification wasbased on military expediency and, according to LeMay and his supporters, whenconfronted with industrial dispersal and a militarized society it was the only way to force Japan to surrender. In later raids US aeroplanes dropped leaflets wanting civilians to leave urban areas as they were now potential targets, but the primary aim was tobludgeon Japan into surrender before growing war-weariness in the USA prompteda negotiated rather than an unconditional surrender. There was certainly concern overprojected friendly casualties if US forces had to carry out Operation Olympic,  the invasion of Japan, in November 1945. The fanatical resistance of the Japanese in the final island campaigns on Okinawa and Iwo Jima had demonstrated the willingness of the emperor’s armed forces to fight on. In spite of the appalling suffering caused bythe firebombings and with military production all but extinguished, still the army wasdetermined to fight to the bitter end. Arguably, the limits of conventional bombinghad been met and against a determine