thorities were often at a loss as to what the RAF was attempting to hit. Moreover, as losses at the hands of the increasingly sophisticated German night-fighters increased, with sinkings of merchant shipping in the Atlantic to U-boats for want of long-range bomber type aircraft mounting and with growing demands for more air resources to be used to support the Mediterranean campaign, the whole basis of the bombing offensive seemed to be about to collapse. The campaign was saved by three factors. First, in February 1942 the Air Staff switched the premise of the offensive from destroying particular industrial targets to one based on a strategy of general area attacks on cities. This, it was hoped would hinder the German economy by dehousing, demoralizing and killing workers both at work and in their homes. Trenchard’s philosophy was therefore, in part, resurrected by pressing circumstance. The RAF’s new strategy was endorsed by Churchill’s influential scientific advisor, Professor Lindemann (later Lord Cherwell).77 Secondly, Arthur Harris was appointed as the Commander-in-Chief of RAF Bomber Command in February 1942 and his influence was both marked and impressive. Whatever his detractors were to say later, he was a major factor in pulling Bomber Command together in 1942 and his single-minded determination, perhaps later a disadvantage, was ideal at this stage of the war. Paradoxically, he was not a true believer  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 169 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 158in the Air Staff’s new morale-cracking stratagem, but did see significant possibilities in the straightforward disintegration of Germany’s industrial infrastructure using the policy of area bombing. Finally, the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and the subsequent German declaration of war on the USA brought the Americans into the war. Agreed Allied strategy waspredicated on the “Germany first” principle, and the USAAF was a firm and ardentsupporter of strategic bombing and the po