whelming and, more than in any other area, the advantages of the Allies and failings of the Axiswere no more ruthlessly demonstrated than in the field of air power. Land warfare – the Allied recovery in the East Whereas the Luftwaffe  began to haemorrhage from 1941 onwards, their enemies began to learn from them and develop their own effective ground support air forces. TheVVS and the Western Allies’ tactical air forces developed along different paths, reflectingthe contrasting nature of the air war on the Eastern and Western Fronts. From the lowpoint of 1941, the VVS, backed by a massive air expansion programme, slowly synthesized its early war experiences into a highly effective tactical air arm doctrine. The architect of the VVS’s major reorganization was General A.A. Novikov, who pushed the Red Air Force even more along the path towards becoming a dedicatedarmy support arm. The last vestiges of strategic air power thinking were effectivelymarginalized during this period and only some 4 per cent of VVS activity was devotedto long-range bombing throughout the war. 45 Novikov copied some of the tactics employed by the Luftwaffe,  and tied air units to the army forces they were to support, in a similar fashion to the early development of air-ground co-operation in westernarmies. By 1943, tactical co-ordination had improved considerably and the introductionof new aircraft and weaponry began to place VVS air power ahead of the Luftwaffe,  not only in numbers but also in effectiveness. The aero-industry, forced to relocate by the advancing German army, quickly re- established itself east of the Urals. Much retooling and reorganization had beenundertaken since the debacle of the winter war against Finland and the nature of theSoviet economy, which emphasized central planning, aided the expansion of the aircraftindustry considerably. Standardization around certain rugged and dependable aircraftdesigns simplified production matters, although more advanced models were intr