n’s traum ” (the maiden’s dream) by the Germans in recognition of the observation balloons’ rather phallic shape. 14 It was a sight only really associated with the Great War as the advent of more mobile warfare in the interwar era and the Second World War meant that the value of the static balloon to armies was considerably reduced. Moreover, even as the First World War progressed and aeroplane technology improved, the balloonbecame more vulnerable to air attack while the reconnaissance aeroplane grew increasingly more flexible. Nevertheless, for much of the war the aerial balloon proved to be the ideal platform for artillery spotting and observation. At a height of 4,000 feet and in favourable conditions, a balloon observer could see 15 miles into the enemy rear zone, offering valuable information on the activities of the opposing army. In some ways the balloonwas superior to the moving aircraft, as high-powered binoculars could only be used effectively from a steady and static position. 15 Observation was an important part of the balloon’s duties, but the key role proved to be artillery spotting and direction:such was the state of the new technology that gunners in World War I rarely, if ever, saw the enemy and soon became heavily reliant on information fed back to them from the air. This role, coupled with the highly destructive power of modern artillery,made balloons key weapons in the war. Increasingly sophisticated techniques were introduced for linking aerial observation with artillery fire, and it soon became clear that the importance of the balloon was making it a target for enemy aircraft or of  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 60 --- THE FIRST WORLD WAR, 1914–18 49artillery fire itself. The balloon observer was effectively a sitting duck and safety measures were crude. Although parachutes were provided should the observer need to escape, they occasionally failed to work, and in any case offered little chance of survival should the hydrogen filled ball