orce is often overlooked. Around a third of the urban population under threat of bombing had no protection at all during raids, and in major cities they saw some 55–60 per cent of their homes destroyed by the Allied air forces. Mass evacuations were a partial answer for some sixmillion civilians, but this had a severe impact on morale as families were split up and forced to live in difficult and trying conditions for long periods of time. Consequently, morale in the working force exposed to constant bombing slumped as the war wenton. By 1944, absenteeism rates of 20–25 per cent were not unusual and in post-war analysis 91 per cent of civilians stated that bombing was the most difficult hardship to endure and was a key factor in the collapse of their own morale. 95 The debate as to what the offensive actually achieved will go on, but the weight of modern research and opinion appears to back the view that considerable damage was done to the German war economy, hindering output in a variety of ways andcontributing to the Allied victory. However, it is also the case that the hope that air power alone would bring about the defeat of Germany was unattainable. Air power worked only when integrated into an overall strategy for the prosecution of the war. Whatever the direct impact of strategic bombing on the German war economy, the diversion of scant resources to defend the air space over the Third Reich was a major effect of the bomber offensive. The allocation of vast numbers of men andequipment to mount the defence of Germany is all too often ignored by those seeking to criticize the impact of the strategic air offensive. The drain on resources increased significantly as the war went on, diverting in particular guns, ammunitionand technical equipment from the front-line armies. By 1944, 33 per cent of artillery production and 20 per cent of ammunition was directed towards anti-aircraft activity, while between one and two million Germans were employed in countering thebom