Therefore, it can be seen that nations chose the mix of air power forces necessary for them to prosecute certain policies and that no state’s requirements were the same.Where inappropriate choices were made, failure often followed. It is also worth noting that defeat in war did not necessarily mean that air power strategy had been wrong. For Germany in World War II, general operational support of land campaigns wasessential and their decision to relegate strategic bombing in the interwar era was entirely correct. For Britain, inadequate maritime air power was the price that had to be paid to support independent air strategy, which was more crucial to British survivalthan carrier aviation. Limitations of air power Even when effective air power choices were made, there were many limitations on the impact that aircraft could have on the conduct of war. For all the successes and advantages of air power, there were many disasters and shortcomings and there is an alltoo frequent temptation to overstate the value of aircraft to the conduct of war. Certainly, before World War II the nature of air power was largely supportive to land and sea operations. Air power in World War I was by 1918 an important aid to groundoffensives and to protecting sea routes, but the gaining of air superiority, or indeed total air supremacy, was not in itself decisive. By World War II, the impact aircraft could have on operations was far greater, but in order to press home the advantage of air power control of airspace had become essential. In short, for aircraft to intervene decisively in ground or sea operations over a protracted period, air supremacy was required and this was extremely difficult toattain. Short term air superiority was common, where a concentration of air forces could gain effective freedom to intervene for a short time in a restricted area. However, enemy response was rapid and, once air superiority was being contested, the ability ofaircraft to act decisively against ground