to the German fighter arm was immense. 86 By attempting to intervene and engage the USAAF in air superiority battles the Luftwaffe  opened itself up to heavy “imposed” attrition, attrition which the USAAF could cope with but with which the Germans could not. Moreover, the P-51 was greatly superior to theGerman interceptors, many of which had been slowed down by the addition of heavy armaments to increase their effectiveness against large bombers. With US fighters arriving in ever growing numbers and beginning to shoot the Luftwaffe  out of the skies, realization dawned that control of German airspace was being lost. Albert Speer recorded that Goering had always claimed that Allied fighters would never be able to reach Germany. When they did, it was clear the war was lost. 87 As loss rates soared, the growing problem of replacing the pilots, even more than their aircraft, began to appear insurmountable. Between January and May 1944 the Luftwaffe lost the equivalent of its entire fighter pilot strength, meaning that replacements couldonly just keep up with losses. Thus, no expansion of the fighter arm could take place at the very time the Allied air forces were encroaching ever further and in greater numbers into German airspace. While Milch and Speer made exceptional efforts toincrease aircraft production, although largely consisting of single-engined fighters,  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 172 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 161Table 6.3 – German fighter pilot loss rate, January 1942–May 1944 Source:  Murray, Luftwaffe,  pp. 310–11. little could be done to prevent the haemorrhaging of trained Luftwaffe  aircrew. Pilot training was hit particularly badly by the bombing raids on oil production and by 1944 German pilots had less than half the length of flying time prior to being thrown into the fray than their American and British counterparts. In the months leading up tothe Normandy landings the Luftwaffe  suffered grievous losses to its fighter arm, some 3,278