irebombings and with military production all but extinguished, still the army wasdetermined to fight to the bitter end. Arguably, the limits of conventional bombinghad been met and against a determined and fanatical foe it was perhaps not as decisiveas had been hoped. Indeed, it was to take a number of further body blows in August to convince the Japanese to end the war, although it was the atomic bombings in particular of 6 and 9 August that delivered the coup de grâce. The atomic bombs No single act in the history of air power has epitomized the so-called degeneration into “total war” more vividly than the dropping of the atomic weapons on Japan inAugust 1945. The programme to develop the bomb had been underway for years and once again demonstrated that only the most technological and thoroughly organized of states could now attain the higher levels of military status. Indeed, by the end ofWorld War II, only the USA could be considered a first class air power in strategicterms because only it had nuclear capability. The first atomic bomb was dropped bythe B-29 Enola Gay  on August 6 and 80–100,000 people perished. Thousands more were to die from burns and radiation poisoning in the days, months and years following. Three days later, and one day after the Soviet declaration of war with Japan, Nagasaki was destroyed by a second bomb which killed 35,000. The Japanese surrendered,though it should be noted that many still wanted to fight on and a last minute coupto prevent the transmission of the emperor’s call to lay down arms had to be averted.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 206 --- THE WAR IN THE FAR EAST, 1937–45 195The escalation of war was in many ways complete and the atomic bombings elided with the fire bombings to open a new chapter in conflict. However, it could also be judged that what the US 20th air force achieved in the spring and summer of 1945 was exactly what had been considered before the war by theorists and air poweradvocates – surely this wa