tlaws of the air  (1895) and Douglas Fawcett’s Hartmann the anarchist  (1895). It has been argued that these novels helped to bring home to society the fear of aerial attack and went on to shape the myths and excesses of air power.19 However, by far the most famous literary influence came from the British writer H.G. Wells, already renowned for his science fiction works such as The time machine (1895) and The war of the worlds  (1898). His first important air power work came in 1902, entitled Anticipations.  Wells wrote of air forces being crucial to warfare in the next few decades, and also discussed the notion that “command of the air” was an essential precursor to the effective use of air power. Undoubtedly, however, it was the famous novel The war in the air  (1908) that proved to be his most enduring aerial work, describing as it did a major air war between the great powers of the world: New Y ork is laid waste, and after a series of fruitless battles, civilization regresses. The book again picked up certain elements that later found their way into air power strategy. Wells argued that  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 40 --- THE BIRTH OF AIR POWER 29the initial “knockout blow” was crucial, and that “command of the air” was vital to the delivery of such attacks. The superiority of air forces over land and naval arms was clearly stated, as was the inherent hostility and conservatism of the traditional armed forces towards air power. The influence of Wells’ works is of course difficult to gauge accurately, but he was widely read by the young especially and he was friends with Leo Amery, who became a parliamentary spokesman for aerial matters in 1911. Indeed, the first British officer to fly, Lieutenant J.W . Dunne, was an acquaintance of Wells, and Captain Jean Ferber, the French airman, also indicated the influence of Wells’ work on him.20 Literature from the era leading up to World War I did help to foster “air mindedness” and with the growth in aerial acti