omber raids, although latterly, and on occasion, these were usefully deployed. 64 Allied fighter-bombers, of which the RAF’s Hawker T yphoon and the USAAF’sRepublic P-47 Thunderbolt were the main examples, were the bane of the Germanarmy’s life from Normandy onwards. Such aircraft roamed freely overhead, attackedwith little warning and were generally so swift that AA batteries had trouble downingthem. The image of the fighter-bomber as a potent tank-killer is, however, somethingof a myth. The T yphoon especially gained a reputation for “brewing-up” German armour, a reputation that helped to allay some of the fears of the Allied ground forces, which were singularly outclassed by German tanks. In fact, although rocket-firingT yphoons were successful against mobile troops in general, they were largely ineffectiveat destroying tanks. The safest place on the battlefield during a T yphoon attack wasinside a tank because they alone offered sufficient protection against anything otherthan a direct hit and rockets were notoriously inaccurate. However, German tank crews did not always perceive this to be the case and often baled out of their tanks at the first sign of air attack. Once again, ground troops exposed to air attack demonstratedlimited powers of resistance, and in this respect armies of the Second World Warfollowed their predecessors of the 1914–18 conflict. Nevertheless, fighter-bomberswere highly successful, for they did cripple German armour: first by destroying itslogistical support, and secondly by undermining morale. The number of undamaged but abandoned German tanks found by advancing Allied forces was testament to lack of fuel and lack of resolve in the face of unopposed air assault. 65 In contrast, the medium and heavy bomber raids used to support Allied breakout attempts from Normandy illustrated decided shortcomings and problems, although they ultimately proved successful. There was already considerable resentment from  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Pa