ndards of its arch-proponents. Clearly, bombing did not win World War II by itself, nor was it ever likely to. But it did contribute greatly to the economiccollapse of the Axis powers, not only in terms of direct destruction but also in the restraining impact it had on production and in destroying the Luftwaffe  in the last two years of the war. 2 It is not enough to argue, as some have, that the considerable expansion of the German economy from the middle of 1942 was evidence for the failure of the bombing offensive.3; It is indicative, however, of what Albert Speer might have achieved if he had not had to take into account the repeated aerial pummellingof Germany for the last three years of the war.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 15 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 4Nevertheless, despite its achievements, the bombing offensive of World War II still raises many questions. The resources allocated to the campaign by the Allies, especiallythe British, were huge and, it has been argued, they were denied many other possible strategic options. The continued prosecution of the offensive on a vast scale when the Germans seemed to be taking it in their stride and suffering only limited losses –though of course they were suffering in many hidden ways – only becomes shrewd when viewed with the benefit of hindsight. Moreover, the heaviest destruction inflicted by the bomber fleets came in the last year of the war when, many have argued,German and Japanese defences were already starting to crumble. The importance of the bombing offensive to the outcome of World War II remains a hotly disputed issue and, if the moral and ethical aspects of the campaign are also considered, it is clear thatthe debate will continue to dominate perceptions of air power. Ethics and air war The expansion of war into the air resulted in significant changes to perceptions ofwhat was acceptable in wartime conditions. Targeting cities and industrial centrescertainly appeared to make good stra