r-bombers, as in WorldWar I, had yet to be resolved.. On the outbreak of war only the pragmatic, and thanks to the Spanish Civil War, experienced Germans were in a fit state to conduct ground support operations withany degree of effectiveness. In the summer of 1940 the failings of British and French planning and doctrine were to be contrasted ruthlessly with the relative efficiency and flexibility of the Luftwaffe. Maritime air power Maritime air power had progressed considerably in the First World War, mirroring the advances made in other areas of air power development. Aircraft on maritime dutieshad greatly extended reconnaissance ranges, provided essential air cover to convoysand offered the means of direct attack on naval vessels. The British were the leaders in the field with 12 aircraft handling ships in the Royal Navy and some 3,000 aircraft available in 1918. 58 The future of maritime air power, certainly in Britain, most probably in the USA and, latterly, in Japan, looked secure. As always, many commentators recognized the potential of air power to influence maritime operations but in the post-1918 era the world’s major naval powers struggledto come to terms with the prospect of air power at sea. It was to take many years for navies to accept that aircraft could play a potentially decisive role in maritime warfare. However, the large navies of the world did investigate what air power had to offer andthe much repeated myth that naval staffs and thinkers alike dismissed aircraft as merefancies in the interwar era is simply not true. The rate of change in naval thinking didvary greatly but was shaped by geostrategic requirement and constraints of finance as much as by institutional conservatism.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 102 --- THE DEVELOPMENT OF AIR POWER DOCTRINE AND THEORY 91Maritime air power divided into two sectors. First, there were land based air forces which sought to intercept and attack enemy naval units, and which also carried outthe i