n the atomic bombings of Japan in 1945. Strategic air power and total war The twentieth century saw the advent of so-called “total war”, and aircraft were toplay a significant role in developing the totality of conflict. In the past, long drawn-out wars had had devastating effects on societies, causing massive upheaval and evenmass migration of dislocated populations. However, these conflicts had only rarelyresulted in direct and sustained attack on the people themselves. That had changed by the time of the Second World War in particular. Air power provided the means with which to attack enemy populations directly, creating huge ethical and moral problems.Was targeting civilians a justifiable or legitimate stratagem simply because the capabilitynow existed? If they were working in factories producing tanks and guns, were theynot as culpable as the men in uniforms who represented them? In the age of total war,was it not true that whole societies rather than elites were, for the first time in the modern era, in conflict with each other and consequently open to attack? There is a widespread perception that war and human society has somehow degenerated into a new barbarism in the twentieth century and that the emergence of total war and all its attendant excesses has been the principal result. 1 However,  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 14 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 3compared with the wholesale destruction of civilizations and cultures in the ancient and medieval world, the desire in the twentieth century to use extreme methods inwar is nothing new. It is spurious to confuse inability with unwillingness or restraint in the prosecution of war. What air power contributed to the development of a more total war than the Mongol conquests, or the destruction of the indigenous civilizationsof the Americas, was the means with which to prosecute a greater degree of war, both in terms of destruction and in the perceptions of societies. Many civilizations have used