here was only so much that either strategic or tactical air forces could do to influence the outcome of the war. Indeed,the Allies won air supremacy over Germany by the spring of 1944, long before the war  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 23 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 12came to an end; and in the Pacific, Japanese air power was effectively extinguished in June 1944, at the Battle of the Philippine Sea. Moreover, Japan was never able tomount a serious air defence against the US strategic bombing offensive which was to devastate their cities. However, they were still prepared to fight in August of the following year. It took the atomic bombings and the Soviet declaration of war to pushJapan towards surrender terms that were acceptable to the USA. Allied aircraft were able to roam over both Germany and Japan virtually unmolested for almost a year before the war was brought to an end. However, it was a combinedarms offensive which ultimately secured victory against the Axis powers. It is clear that many operations crucial to the Allied victory could not have taken place without air superiority – the Normandy landings and the subsequent breakout being a case inpoint – but it is also true that many battles and campaigns were won when air power played only a marginal or at least only a supportive role. The great “turning point” battles of the Eastern Front, such as Stalingrad and Kursk, were contested without airpower proving decisive either way. Air power was arguably most significant in maritime operations. This was certainly true in the Pacific, but again the US forces still had to win costly and bloody landbattles against stubborn and determined Japanese forces who were for the most part unsupported by aircraft. Additionally, the projected Allied losses (approximately 30,000) for Operation Olympic,  the invasion of Japan in November 1945, were still considered high enough that whatever air power had hitherto achieved it was not in itself enough, until Hi