is is by no means clear. 7 Likewise, the Soviet Union, embroiled as it was with internal and border affairs, had only a limited role for strategic air power in national strategy. This, along with the experience of the Spanish Civil War, and because of the purges in the late 1930s, resulted in the end of heavy bomber forces in the USSR. T oo often thequestion of national air strategies has been posed incorrectly – it was not a question of why the rest of the world did not adopt strategic bombing, but why Britain and  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 20 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 9the USA persevered with it?8 In both cases strategic bombing fitted neatly into national strategy. For Britain, it was an excellent way of trying to avoid having to fight on thecontinent as they had in World War I. Whereas in the past the British Royal Navy had provided the means of avoiding the continental commitment, so now the prospect of bringing wars to dramatic finales within weeks of beginning strategic air campaignsseemed to offer the way of evading the creation of great armies of the sort that hadbeen ultimately necessary to defeat Napoleon and also Imperial Germany in WorldWar I. For the USA, bombing of industrial centres was a vital precursor to groundoperations in Europe and the Far East. The USA’s productivist approach to war, which symbolized total war more than any other, recognized the need to disable the enemy’s industrial output prior to, or in conjunction with, ground assault. However, while British and US air power strategy may have converged on aerial bombing, they differed radically on the value of an independent air force. For theUSA, like Japan, tactical maritime air power was crucial to the conduct of operationsin the Pacific and for this a specific naval air arm was considered essential. For Britain, carrier operations were not of the same order of importance. Although the navy viewed its interwar imperial duties very seriously, national strategic req