buckley_total.pdf --- Page 148 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 137Table 6.1 – U-boat losses to RAF Coastal Command, 1939–45, % of total losses Source:  Buckley, The RAF and trade defence,  p. 186. The importance of air power in defeating the U-boat threat principally rested with the simple deterrent effect of patrols, but from 1942 onwards the offensive capability of the RAF’s Coastal Command dramatically increased. The use of operational researchtechniques and the incorporation of new technologies helped to tilt the balancedecisively in favour of the Allies. The German submarine fleet countered with radar and radar detection advances of their own, but mirroring the war as a whole, as 1943 went on their ability to keep up with the Allies’ leaps in air power technology declined.Coastal Command accounted for the destruction of more U-boats than any otherservice in the last three years of the war. The Germans pushed the limits of U-boatdesign still further and the new T ype XXI model threatened to negate the aerialadvantage of the Allies. However, the damage had been done and the war was drawing to a close with air power having contributed significantly to victory in the Battle of the Atlantic. It was clear once again that mobilizing the scientific and industrialcommunities for modern war was essential. Air power’s growing superiority over surface shipping was also demonstrated during the war in Europe, principally by the Germans. Whereas the British relied heavily ontheir surface navy to provide protection to seaborne operations, the Germans, lacking a sizeable naval arm of their own, were forced to use aircraft to combat the Royal Navy’s (RN’s) supremacy. The RN, lacking effective carrier based air power, proved to  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 149 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 138be extremely vulnerable to land based air attack as demonstrated during the Norway debacle of 1940, in the defence and evacuation of Crete in 1941 and off Malaya when the Pri