h a failing was repeated moreemphatically by the Japanese, and the Germans too, for the most part, did not truly recognize the potential of trade war, hence the small number of U-boats available on the outbreak of war. Industry, science and technology The demands of air power on aero-economies and their supporting industries during the Second World War were huge. While the direct impact of air power on the conduct of war had contributed greatly to the creation of what is now loosely termed “totalwar”, the secondary impact of the air power revolution, on economies and aero- industries, also brought about the development of the new type of war. As has beenstated, air power was much more expensive both to develop and maintain as an effective military force. Its unit cost in research, design and personnel training surpassed even  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 150 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 139the most expensive use of resources on the army or navy. Still further, the cost of keeping an air force operational in wartime conditions grew enormously as wastage and attritional rates, as well as accelerating obsolescence, threatened to swallow up available aero-industry resources. Already in the late 1930s the rate of technological progress in aircraft design and technology had stepped up dramatically, increasing demands on industry and still further on a state’s scientific base. Far more than in the Great War, the effectiveness of air power was to be dictated by technological advances and invention and indeed, the ability of a state’s aero-industry to keep up with or even surpass the technology of the enemy was essential to success. The cornerstones of success were essentially twofold. First, a state had to be able to maximize its productive capacity to maintain and expand its air power potential. It was clear that effective air forces were crucial to modern warfare and the ability of industry to provide the aircraft and equipment required was essential. In this in