logical advances of the late 1930s had handed Goering’s force a considerable advantage over the opposingair forces. Moreover, the Luftwaffe ’s flexible approach to war, almost an anti-doctrine, allowed great adaptability in the face of a variety of problems. With more considered training and technical development, partly as a result of the Spanish experience, and because of the large amount of campaigning the Luftwaffe  was involved in during the 1939–41 era, tactical German air superiority followed, and it was incumbent on the Allies to catch up. However, it must also be remembered that the air forces arrayed against the Luftwaffe rarely offered serious opposition. Generally, they were technologically inferior, or in the process of absorbing a new generation of aircraft. The French and Soviet air forces were caught in the middle of major re-equipment programmes. Within the RAF only fighters were at the cutting edge of aerial technology while their bombers were obsolete, rendering close air support operations untenable. Additionally, the doctrines of the air forces confronted was also in a state of flux. The French Armee de l’Air  was deployed in concert with national strategy, based on static linear defence, akin to the First World War. This allowed the Luftwaffe  to mass its resources where required and saw the local French air units swamped and destroyed. The VVS had switched its thinking to a dedicated policy of army support, but the purges and the resulting chaos of the  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 146 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 135late 1930s and early 1940s left the Red Air Force almost impotent by the time of Operation Barbarossa.  Still further, aside from the VVS, all the air forces attacked by the Luftwaffe  were numerically weaker as well as largely technically inferior. The aerial blitzkrieg,  more than anything, demonstrated that widening gulf between first rate air powers and other less well-equipped and advanced states. Countries suchas G