poison gas, was seen at the time as extreme and  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 87 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 76repulsive. However, it can easily be viewed alongside the threat of nuclear holocaust, a strategy accepted as a necessity in the post-World War II era. A crucial part of Douhet’s strategy and a point often overlooked, was Douhet’s claim that the enemy’s air power capability had to be neutralized before the massedbombers could be unleashed on the cities. The enemy air force had to destroyed, preferably on the ground, in order to seize command of the air. Moreover, it was crucial that the enemy be denied the ability to rebuild their air forces or resourceswould have to be repeatedly applied to defeating new enemy air fleets. The key in Douhet’s thinking was to gain mastery of the air as an essential precursor to aerial bombardment, a point the RAF was particularly unwilling to accept in World War II. However, Douhet’s pivotal role in the formation of strategic bombing theory in the interwar era is highly questionable. His writing almost certainly had marginal influence and was read and acknowledged retrospectively. By the time Douhet’s work becamewidely known in Britain and the USA, the future practitioners of strategic bombing in World War II had already established the precepts of their doctrine and planning, albeit in a flawed and incomplete fashion. Indeed, neither RAF commanders ArthurHarris or John Slessor claimed to have heard of Douhet before World War II. 14 Douhet’s work was little read outside Italy until the 1930s and an English translation was not published until 1942. Moreover, there is no direct evidence of his work being used inthe formulation of British strategic bombing theory in the interwar era. Whatever Douhet was writing was in any case similar in content to the thinking of other air power advocates and indeed to the doctrine being formulated or rejected within theworld’s air forces. 15 Nevertheless, evidence of the wid