ults of hisinadequacies became clearer when Erhard Milch returned to prominence in 1941,following Udet’s suicide. Milch was effectively forced to abandon the next generationof aircraft being developed by the Luftwaffe  because they would not be in service for some time, and production of aircraft for the front line was desperately requiredimmediately. 37 Hence his decision to make the Luftwaffe  soldier on with modified but ageing designs in order to fill the gap in output in the short term. Ultimately Milch’sgamble failed but there was little else that could be done at the end of 1941. Later programmes, aimed at developing a generation of new aircraft one step ahead of the Allies, resulted in excellent designs with considerable potential. However, they were hampered by Germany’s crumbling war effort, lack of resources and yet further political meddling, the most famous case being Hitler’s insistence on the Me262 jet  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 154 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 143fighter being modified to act as a bomber. Moreover, in the case of the V1 and V2 weapons, they consumed vast amounts of resources with few tangible benefits. It is estimated that, in the closing stages of the war, the “V” programmes consumed theequivalent resources required to produce 24,000 fighter aircraft, and it is clear wherethese resources would have been better deployed. 38 In contrast, the Soviets concentrated on quantity and adequate quality. By basing the development of the VVS in essence around two fighters, the Yakovlev 9 and the Lavochkin 5, and two bombers, the Ilyushin 2 Shturmovik and Petlyakov 2, all rugged and dependable designs, the VVS sacrificed a modicum of technical innovation as aprice for simplifying the production process. 39 Moreover, the Western Allies were able to standardize around modern aircraft that were either in the early stages ofprocurement on the outbreak of war, or were able to improve and develop existingdesigns to a greater degree than t