sulting in poor rehability and service back-up. In consequence, the Luftwaffe  had virtually disappeared from the skies by the middle of 1944 and the last vestiges of real Japanese air strength were frittered away in a series of fruitless attritional battles in 1942–3 and then gunned down over the Philippine Sea in June 1944 during the so-called “Great Marianas Turkey Shoot”. A clear measure of the Axis powers’ inability to sustain their air power effort was their failure to train adequate numbers of replacements. The Japanese naval air arm suffered heavy casualties at Midway in 1942, when its carriers were sunk from beneathit, and later around the Solomons. It was never able to fully recover. Even two years later, the Imperial Japanese Navy was unable to field properly trained replacement aircrew whereas the Americans turned out huge numbers of both high quality aircraftand well trained aircrew. Post-war analysis of German flying accident rates in 1944–5 seemed to indicate surprisingly low levels, until it was noted that German pilots were being shot down faster than they could crash. As has been stated, the degree oftraining investment in pilots and aircrew per head was much higher than in the other armed forces. It was an investment only the Allies with their vast resources and more capable organization, in both World Wars, could afford to keep making. The depth of adjustment and management of the economy was a clear indication of the demands of total war, and air power was, arguably, a key indicator as to how well a particular economy had adapted to the new style of war. Whereas the Allies wereable to meet the demands total war air power made of their economies, their enemies were not, and this perhaps tells us a great deal about why victory came to the Allies in World War I and II.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 32 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 21Conclusion Air power more than any other arm in the twentieth century epitomized total war. It brough