eless, the Zeppelin retained an almost mythical aura, which it clearly did not deserve. For example, although the navy was more pragmatic about the airship – it had only one in 1914 – it still retained dreams of using an expanded Zeppelin force for maritime reconnaissance and bombing missions. Britain In 1909 Louis Bleriot crossed the English Channel by aircraft and thus at a stroke rendered that narrow strip of sea, which had for so long protected Britain, potentially worthless. “England is no longer an island”, proclaimed Lord Northcliffe after the news of powered flight reached British shores. Indeed, on the face of it, Britain’s entire national strategy, based as it was around naval supremacy, had been compromised by the arrival of air power. Germany’s airships and France’s lead in aeroplane development caused considerable consternation in British circles. In fact, although the potential of aircraft was significant, in the years leading up to World War I, air power was decidedly embryonic and even in World War II the importance of naval supremacy and the English Channel was reaffirmed. Nevertheless, rivalry with Germany and long term military considerations meant that Britain could not stand by and let others dictate air  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 46 --- THE BIRTH OF AIR POWER 35power development. However, it took a concerted campaign by air minded groups and individuals, such as Lord Northcliffe, to push aerial development along. In 1909 the Committee of Imperial Defence (CID) decided that air attack on Britain was not possible, partly because no civilized nation would resort to such barbarity, and thusspending on aerial development should be strictly limited. Aircraft design and construction was effectively left to private enterprises, such as Geoffrey de Havilland, Frederick Handley-Page and the Short brothers. Northcliffe, recently a visitor to the Reims airshow, was not satisfied. He published widely on the subject of air attack and vigorously su