g for a strategic bombing offensive against the USSR was in place in the summer of 1941, only to be abandoned when the demands of army support took over.34 French attitudes to strategic bombing were at best ambivalent and, in places, downright hostile. According to Pascal Vennesson, the French air force, only formed in 1933, rejected Douhet and his theories and remained very much at the beck and call of the army. However, it has also been argued that once nominally independent, the nascent French air force attempted to wriggle out of the army’s clutches and build a more progressive doctrine which included dabblings with strategic bombing.This fused with the army’s misplaced faith in the strategic defence (hence the Maginot Line), to which the air force was in reality closely tied, and served to cripple French air power in the interwar period. 35 In Italy the prospects for strategic bombing looked better. Italy had carried out a bombing campaign during the First World War with some success and Douhet’s writings were naturally more widely read in Italy than anywhere else. Moreover, Italy had an independent air force by 1923 with a manufacturer, Caproni, who already had experience of designing heavy-bombers. Still further, Italy’s geographical position was such that aerial bombing on a sizeable scale was a viable option. Y et strategic bombing doctrine never became part of Italy’s national strategy. Principally this can be attributed to a series of institutional and procurement failures. Not only was there no real consideration of doctrine in the Regia Aeronautica,  but there was also no serious central planning or strategic overview. The failure of Mussolini’s ill-disciplined fascist state bears testimony once again to the fact that, in order to develop air power effectively, a strong industrial, scientific and military structure needs to have been established with clearly defined national strategic goals. This was not achieved in Italy and consequently strategic bomb