ources, but also in the nature and type of technological, scientific and industrial effort required. The Allies, the Soviet Union included, understood what sacrifices would have to be made and accordinglybuilt air strength of immense and overwhelming power by 1944. The consequences of failure for Germany were catastrophic and defeat came rapidly once air supremacy had been conceded. The failure to contest control of air space over an industrial state resulted in disaster. Clearly of most significance to the civilian populations of Europe and the Far East was the threat and then the reality of aerial bombardment. Since before World War I, fearof this new weapon of war had loomed large over societies and governments alike. T o mass populations nothing encapsulated modern war more than air raids and the panic and terror which ensued. The impact on cities and urban populations was huge,requiring a wholly new approach to war: civil defence, air-raid precautions, evacuation of non-essentials, dispersal of industry and much more. Equally, civilian populations became the targets of concerted military action for sustained periods for the first time,  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 233 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 222and the threat and experience seared itself onto the consciousness of the modern world. Since 1945, the impact of air power on the conduct and planning of conflict has lessened, largely because mass industrial war has, in effect, become obsolete. Mass airpower was first and foremost a weapon of “total war” and that age has gone. Nevertheless,air power, in conjunction with nuclear weapons, played a significant part in shapingthe Cold War, forcing both sides, certainly by the 1950s, to re-evaluate their attitudes and approaches to war itself. War was not made obsolete by nuclear armed air forces, as some have argued, but it had become so potentially destructive that war had to beconducted by other means. When so constrained, air power has been less e