oon observation service which saw service in the otherwise disastrous Russo-Japanese war of 1904–5. Fear of western Europe’s developing air mindedness prompted further action in Russia. Again, newspaper pressure from 1907 onwards was a major impetus to action, with airship development similar to the other great powers consideredessential. By 1909 Russia was testing its first home produced dirigible, assisted bygovernment funding. However, the emergence of heavier-than-air powered flightradically altered the situation. By 1908 aeroclubs were springing up in Moscow, Kievand most importantly at the Imperial All-Russian Aero Club in St Petersburg. As in other cases, air power received support from a number of high placed individuals and in Russia the Grand Admiral, Grand Duke Alexander Mikhailovich,became one of its leading advocates. He was in France when Bleriot crossed theEnglish Channel and he immediately set about purchasing French aircraft. By 1910Russia was holding airshows similar to those being held elsewhere in Europe, and theaeroplane was rapidly supplanting the airship. More military interest followed and in  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 50 --- THE BIRTH OF AIR POWER 391912 aviation was taken over directly by the General Staff. Russian pilots even gained combat experience in the Balkan Wars of 1912–13. However, Russia’s biggest problem, similar to Austria–Hungary, was its lack of a sophisticated and technologically advanced economic base to support its fledglingaircraft industry. Debate raged as to whether better aircraft should be purchased fromabroad or whether Russia should persevere with cruder home produced designs tofoster better long-term development. Visiting French officers mocked Russian designs, but logically if Russia was to develop as an air power, native designs and production had to be persevered with. However, with an industrial base such as Russia’s this wasgoing to prove exceptionally difficult. On the outbreak of war, Russia’s fron