riginated in the army engineers, where a number of airships were built between 1908 and 1909. An aviation school soon followedwith a grant of 10 million lira in 1910 based around home produced dirigible airshipsand foreign purchased aeroplanes. Guilio Douhet, later to become a leading air power advocate, was already writing about the potential future value of air power in La  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 49 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 38Preparazione.  Douhet, who eventually became head of the Italian air force, pressed hard for economic support for the aircraft industry, although with limited effect. One success was the construction of the world’s first true bomber aircraft in 1913 byGianni Caproni who was himself a fervent believer in Douhet’s developing air powerideas. Indeed, it was Italy’s air service which was the first to be used in anger in operations in Libya against Turkish forces, the reports of which helped the British decide to set up the RFC. These reports were also examined closely by other nascent air powers. 39 The African campaigns certainly pushed air power into the limelight in Italy, with a major fund raising campaign for the air fleet resulting by 1912/13 in the first aircraftfactory being set up, albeit with French support. Nevertheless, in 1914 Italian air powerwas small and underdeveloped compared to France and Germany. It was also relianton overseas designs and technology, although the War Ministry was attempting to alleviate this problem by encouraging home design and production. In the long term however, Italy was constrained by the limited scale of its industrial base, though not tothe same degree as Austria–Hungary. 40 Imperial Russia Russia’s first dabblings with air power effectively came with the founding of a fixed balloon observation service which saw service in the otherwise disastrous Russo-Japanese war of 1904–5. Fear of western Europe’s developing air mindedness prompted further action in Russia. Again, newspap