red. Unfortunately, the nature of air power was such that not only were there problems of mass-production of equipment to arm the air force, but there were also crucial issues concerning technological capability. More than in any other armed force, technology was absolutelyessential to air power effectiveness. Not even the tank was as thoroughly dependent on scientific innovation and advancement as the aeroplane and its attendant supports. Air power saw the first significant linking of the scientific community and the militaryin an effort to forge productive and technological advantages that might confer success in battle and war. Because air power had thrown up so many new problems of navigation, accuracy, aerial firepower, location and so on, problems quite different to those of thepast, so the drive to solve them had to rely heavily on scientific investigation and reasoning. Trial and error by the military was no longer enough and the more successful air powers were those who linked science and technology with the requirements ofthe military. In the First World War, the development of aircraft technology was impressive. In the early stages of the conflict, aircrews shot at each other with revolvers and rifles anddropped bombs by hand, more by guesswork than anything else. The innovations of forward firing machine guns and bomb aiming and delivery devices were such that if one side had them and the other did not, loss of control of airspace was a realpossibility. The need to counter such technological advances was therefore essential. By the time of the Second World War the technological race had become even more pronounced, with radar and radio-assisted bombing becoming crucial to success orfailure. Radar was a key advantage for the British in 1940 and the lack of it was a direct cause of Japan’s catastrophic defeat at Midway in 1942. In the same way, the technological side of the strategic bombing campaign was pivotal to success andfailure. Increasingly more sop