y offered the prospect of great hardship and misery but it also offered little prospect of success. Germany had lost in 1918 and in a weakened state why should the outcome in a future war be any different? For all concerned, the post-war years posed significant strategic conundrums that required new solutions and methods of thinking. In essence, few believed that war had been eliminated, despite rhetoric to the contrary, and therefore what followedwas an attempt to pursue political ends with military means without falling into the ruinous slaughter of the First World War. For the development of air power, the desire to synthesize a new type of war was crucial in propelling the development of airforces in particular directions in the interwar era. National strategies were to play an important role in shaping air policies in the 1920s and 1930s (see Chapter Five) but these strategies were in part the result of what air power theorists were claiming wasand was not possible. While the logical progression was for strategy to fit to what air power had to offer, in some cases aerial theory adapted itself to what was desired, even when this was unrealistic, thus leading to distortions of air power development in theinterwar period. The development of air power thinking followed three distinctive lines in the 1918–39 era. The first, and for most advocates the most significant line of thought, wasstrategic bombing which appeared to offer the most comprehensive and revolutionary progression of warfare; perhaps even to the extent that ground and naval war would no longer be necessary. The second line of thought centred on the belief that airpower provided the means with which to break completely the deadlock that had emerged in ground warfare for the best part of four years. It was argued that the spearheading of ground offensives by aerial artillery was the key to ending campaignsand wars quickly. Thirdly, the development of maritime air power was seen by some as being the key