the threat of NATO air power to War-saw Pact ground forces. 40 T o compound the problem for NATO, Soviet air forces obtained the lion’s share of an overall four per cent per annum increase inSoviet defence expenditure between 1970 and 1978, and indeed the Soviet air force expanded by 50 per cent between 1967 and 1977. 41 However, for perhaps the only time in the Cold War, air power was to have a pivotal impact on the development of events and not just the formulation of strategy. Arguably, strategic nuclear air power impacted little on the outcome of the Cold War. Paradoxically, it was to be NATO’s development of a new tactical air doctrine that was to be themost significant effect air power had on the superpower relationship. That initiative was the concept of the integrated “air-land battle” and in particular the development of Follow-On Forces Attack (FOFA) in the early 1980s. For perhaps the first time,NATO began to wrestle with the problem of confronting a much larger Warsaw Pact ground force capability with non-nuclear forces. By utilizing the latest technology in communications, control, targeting and delivery systems, NATO aimed to develop theability to break up Eastern Bloc attacks by halting enemy front-line attack units and then destroying “follow-on forces” as much as 100 miles into the rear zone of the Warsaw Pact area. 42 In many ways the development plan was to bring at least parity in conventional forces to NATO without recourse to massive increase in manpower. It was estimated that by placing greater emphasis on new technology the West would be able to steal a march on the East and lessen or eradicate the need to rely on nuclearweapons to meet a Soviet backed invasion of Germany. The development of FOFA was a prime example of President Reagan’s expansion of US defence forces in general to combat the so called “empire of evil” in the early  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 225 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 2141980s. Indeed in many ways th