times of war there was no longer the distinction between combatants and civilians. As war was now a matter of whole nation states confronting each other, their civilian populations were now legitimate targets. It was also the case, Douhetargued, that ground forces could not bring about a rapid conclusion to a major war. Success had come to the Allies only after four years of attritional slaughter. The key to future war was the aeroplane, or more precisely, the heavy-bomber. Large formationsof heavy-bombers, like the Italian Caproni designs, offered the means with which to deliver massive attacks on enemy centres of population and industry, which would bring about the collapse of the enemy’s will to resist and thus would bring victory. 12 The only role Douhet foresaw for ground forces (especially in his later writings) was as a policing force to mop up resistance in the wake of the aerial assault. Indeed, Douhet believed that the maximum possible resources should be given over to buildingthe bomber fleet. He felt that all other forms of military activity were now at best peripheral, and at worst a dangerous distraction from the decisive activity of strategic bombing. Of particular importance to Douhet was the attack on the enemy’s morale,which of course was a euphemism for bombing civilians, for which he was quite willing to advocate the use of poison gas. Such measures, considered extreme by some air power advocates, were acceptable to Douhet because they would bring about arapid end to the war and for Douhet that was the key. T o his thinking there was little point in agonizing over the rights and wrongs of bombing: it had to be dealt with as a reality relevant to the 1920s. 13 His particularly apocalyptic vision of a future air war, with thousands of deaths caused by poison gas, was seen at the time as extreme and  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 87 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 76repulsive. However, it can easily be viewed alongside the threat of nuc