ixed wing gliders which he eventually constructed and had flown. The problem of powering the flight was still effectively beyond prevailing technology, but the basic founding principles of fully directional powered flight were there. Others followedCayley’s example. William Henson patented an “Aerial Steam Carriage” in the 1840s,and the Frenchman Felix du T emple de la Croix designed and built a hot-air or steam-powered monoplane which briefly flew in 1874. In October 1890 another Frenchman,Clement Ader, built a steam-powered aircraft which took off and flew for 54 yards. However, despite his claims, little further progress was made. The American, Hiram Maxim, attempted to construct a steam-powered device which would lift straight offthe ground in 1894, and the US government sponsored Samuel Langley to the tune of$50,000 to build a man-lifting aircraft. Both were failures and in fact it was the GermanOtto Lilienthal who did most to foster development of fixed-wing powered flightwith a series of some 2,000 glider flights before he was killed in 1896. The results of Lilienthal’s experiments were picked up by Percy Pilcher in Britain and in 1896 he patented an aircraft design which was basically a glider powered by a petrol engine.Pilcher may have beaten the Wright brothers to the goal of controlled powered flight,but he was killed in a glider crash in 1899. In Dayton, Ohio, the Wright brothers, Wilbur and Orville, were also encouraged and inspired by the work of Lilienthal. 12 After a period of self-taught design they achieved powered flight in December 1903, and followed up the success with further developments and experimentation. News of their earlier efforts and publications hadalready spread and in 1902 the Briton P .Y . Alexander met them in the USA, and ledWilbur Wright to suspect that he was working for the British government. 13 In 1904 Colonel Capper was despatched from Britain to find out what the Wrights hadachieved, but the brothers were not yet willing t