nomic blockade and preparatory to another remorseless advance akin to 1918. The key was the ability to survive the attritional phase of the war without suffering the heavy losses of 1914–17: hence, ultimately, the Maginot Line. For Germany, however, the strategic requirements were very different. It was clear that, with the economic situation which confronted them in the interwar era, another long drawn out war would be fatal. What was required was a means of winning decisive battles and campaigns quickly. Mobility and momentum had to be restored tothe battlefield in the early stages of a war and the slow remorseless approach of the Allies in 1918 was not the answer. It is clear that, to a significant extent, the requirements of national strategy were forcing the pace of theoretical consideration and doctrinal experiment in the interwar period. However, as will be explored later (in Chapter Five) this does not mean that national strategy was driven by battlefield capability, although it has been claimed that the doctrinal developments in ground and air warfare in Germany in the 1920s and 1930s, in part, resulted in a whole national strategy – the so-called blitzkrieg. 38 The development of thinking on the use of air power in ground warfare progressed fitfully and unevenly during the interwar years, but it is with Germany that the formulation of the most effective doctrine for ground support operations is usually associated. Following the First World War the German general staff, now renamed Truppenamt  and under the direction of General Hans von Seeckt, initiated a major survey of the military lessons of the conflict and the role of air power was an area of major interest. A series of studies involving over 130 officers and experts was instigated to examine the impact and role of aircraft in future war. Even though Germany was not allowed any military air power by the terms of the Treaty of Versailles, surreptitious  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 96 --- THE D