less hysterical manner than strategic bombing, and it was also to be supported by experience to a far greater level. It wasclearly much easier to develop doctrine and codify practice for ground support operations than for city bombing and there were a number of small scale conflicts in which combined ground–air tactics could be developed. In part, this led to a muchmore balanced assessment of air power in land warfare than was possible with strategic bombing. However, like its more prestigious and public counterpart strategic bombing, air power in ground operations was to be influenced and shaped by national strategicrequirements, inter-service bickering and political forces, thus leading to a patchy and uneven integration into the doctrine of armed forces. The crucial and pivotal problem confronting armies in the wake of the Great War was how to introduce mobility and decisiveness back to the battlefield. The armies of Europe had gone to war in 1914 expecting a rapid conclusion to the various campaigns and each endeavoured to emerge victorious from the expected decisive battle. Sucha battle did not come and, especially on the Western Front, the next four years witnessed a series of arguably wasteful campaigns aimed at creating a breakthrough. Many factors combined to bring about the stalemate, one of which was the stultifying influence ofair observation which frustrated attempts at generating surprise attacks. However, the key factor had been the dominance of artillery in dictating the nature of the battlefield. In this, air power again had been a key factor in its direction and support of artillerybombardment. By 1918, some of the armies of the great powers had come to terms with the requirements of the World War I battlefield. All arms co-ordination was the key with new technology, communications, tanks, aircraft and highly effective andwell-directed artillery bombardments providing the means of winning battles with acceptable losses. The success of the British a