s in any case similar in content to the thinking of other air power advocates and indeed to the doctrine being formulated or rejected within theworld’s air forces. 15 Nevertheless, evidence of the wider impact of Douhet can be noted. The air power writer L.E.O. Charlton indicated the importance of Douhet’s work in 1935,16 and Arthur Harris’ future right-hand man, Sir Robert Saundby, also later wrote of the Italian’s important influence.17 During the 1939–45 war the air power propagandist Alexander de Seversky used Douhet to support his drive for an independent air forcecapable of defeating America’s enemies directly, without long and costly ground wars, resulting in the famous Disney cartoon Victory through air power. 18 Criticisms of Douhet abound. For example, his bombers always got through and the impact of his raids were always calculated at their most destructive. There is no doubt that Douhet’s vision was at times simplistic, but a key factor in his planning was the use of poison gas, never used in World War II. Consequently, the impact of thebombing raids he envisaged was never tested. Additionally, the key goal of destroying the enemy’s air forces was never the first priority of the strategic bombing offensive until Operation Pointblank  in 1943. Still further, a key element in Douhet’s strategy was  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 88 --- THE DEVELOPMENT OF AIR POWER DOCTRINE AND THEORY 77the surprise bombing attack and the inability of defences to respond quickly enough to prevent such raids. In the 1920s this was, to an extent, legitimate thinking but, withthe advent of radar and high-performance interceptor fighters in the mid-1930s, Douhet’swhole strategy was undermined. Douhet can perhaps be criticized for not expectingdefences to develop at all whilst bombing technology would, but in the environmentof the 1920s there did not really appear to be an answer to the surprise bombing raid. However, Douhet’s most important contribution to the development