the conflict, the Second World War wastotal because of the nature of the fighting, and perhaps the single most importantchange was brought about by the coming of age of air power. Brutal and bloodthirstywar had long been known, but the depth and impact of air war went much further instriking at the heart of western society both in a physical and psychological manner. Air power demanded mass mobilization of economies, industries and scientific establishments to a degree hitherto unknown. As a measure of a state’s ability to wagetotal war, air power was by far the most useful yardstick, as only a few were able tomeet the challenge of fusing technical know-how with mass production in this mostdemanding of fields. By 1945, it was clear that the USA had all the necessary strengths and capabilities and, of the other powers, only Britain and the USSR had to lesser  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 180 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 169degrees kept up. Germany and Japan had most obviously failed not only to mobilize their resources effectively to meet the challenge of this new type of war, but had also failed to appreciate the impact air power could have on the conduct of war. The consequences of their myopia were profound: by the middle of the war, air power was becoming the key weapon in the effective application of resources to strategic ends. In contrast, the Allies, both at strategic and tactical levels, had developed such awesome air potential that they became able to exercise crushing battlefield superiority, in the western Allies’ case making good considerable ground force deficiencies. One only has to read the accounts of German generals, desperately fighting constant rearguard actions, to understand what the surrendering of air supremacy to the Allies meant. However, in the strategic air war over Germany, the Allied victory by spring of 1944 brought not only tremendous military advantage, but also perhaps the pinnacle, if it can be called that, of total war. W