ived by the Japanese atChangkufeng, hostilities broke out again. The Japanese units suffered heavily under attack from the Soviet forces, which employed combined arms tactics, supported by artillery and aerial bombardment. Any initial Japanese aerial success was quickly overcomeby the superior strength in depth of the Soviets. Gradually air superiority switched to the VVS and against large numbers of I-15 and I-16 fighters the Japanese could only deploy older Kawasaki Ki-10 biplanes and small numbers of Nakajima Ki-27monoplanes. Whereas the Soviets had Spanish Civil War veterans to call upon and a large pool of trained aviators and equipment, the Japanese had little in the way of reserves and were forced to pull pilots and aircrew out of the China War to deployagainst the USSR. By September the two powers had negotiated a peace settlement but, Nomonhan had been a rude awakening for the Japanese and had convinced them that war withthe USSR must be avoided for the foreseeable future. 6 It was notable that Japanese attention turned decisively to the south and war with the West only when the USSR became embroiled in the struggle against Germany in June 1941. For the Japanese  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 185 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 174Army Air Force the experience of Nomonhan had indicated that Japan lacked adequate reserves of aircraft, supplies and most importantly, pilots. Whereas the VVS had been able to absorb losses relatively easily, the Japanese had not. Although air expansion schemes continued, Japanese training programmes for pilots and aircrew remained the most exhaustive and wasteful in the world, more so in the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN). It was an issue that was to undermine Japanese air efforts once war had broken out with the USA, perhaps more than any other issue. From 1938 onwards, the Japanese endeavoured to isolate China from western and Soviet aid once it had become clear that a short term decisive victory had been denied. Al