s overshadowed by foreign competitors and hampered by technical failings. Military contracts were small and only 130,000 marks were allocated to aeroplane procurement in 1910. The situation was not aided by the lack of a civilian market for aircraft. By April 1914 the army still only had ten airships though improvements in performance had led to high expectations of the Zeppelin. General  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 45 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 34Moltke and others were even considering knockout bombing blows akin to those later envisaged in the inter-war era. However, the reality of the pre-World War I period was somewhat different as Zeppelins were prone to handling difficulties in anything other than good weather conditions. They were also extravagantly expensive to build and maintain. The Z9 of 1914 cost the equivalent of 34 biplanes.33 Aircraft development continued with support again from air enthusiast Moltke and the General Staff, although the pace of improvement was steady rather than remarkable. Aircraft production was hindered, however, by stuttering aero-engine development which at the behest of the army had emphasized reliability rather than higher performance, and was to lead to serious shortcomings in the war. Popular support for air power was fostered in Germany by the influence of the army, even in the field of civilian aircraft.34 A National Aviation Fund set up in 1912 raised 7.2 million marks which had financed the purchase of 62 aircraft and the training of 162 pilots by August 1914.35 The level of importance given to air power in Germany was considerable in comparison with many other powers, but the War Ministry, like its counterparts elsewhere, remained unconvinced by the zealous claims of certain air power enthusiasts. Nevertheless, the Zeppelin retained an almost mythical aura, which it clearly did not deserve. For example, although the navy was more pragmatic about the airship – it had only one in 1914 – it still retaine