en neglected, in part resulting in inflated expectations on the outbreak of war.Indeed, it is paradoxical that the nation which developed a highly sophisticated airdefence system, and demonstrated its effectiveness against unescorted bombers in 1940 ignored the resulting implications and proceeded to mirror the mistakes of the Luftwaffe.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 168 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 157The fundamental philosophy of the RAF’s bomber barons since the days of Trenchard’s dubious influence on bombing policy was based on the breaking of enemy morale. (See Chapter Four.) This however, had been rejected in the years leading up to the outbreak of war in favour of bombing industrial and economic targets, thus bringing British thinking in line with the US Army Air Corps. From the autumn of 1937, Bomber Command started to consider what to target in Germany, but the degree of careful investigation into the most effective targets, and importantly how to hit them was still superficial.76 Once “unleashed” on the orders of Churchill in the summer of 1940, Bomber Command suffered a rude awakening over Germany. Daylight raids resulted in very heavy losses and were soon abandoned in favour of night raids, in the hope that this would evade the Luftwaffe ’s preying fighters. T o a degree this was successful, but it resulted in the increasing inaccuracy of bombing, which was already poor. The Butt Report of 1941, which was based on photo-reconnaissance information, was the first real test of Bomber Command’s record. It was damning indeed and even Churchill’s faith in the offensive was undermined. Its findings were that only some 20 per cent of bomber crews were getting within five miles of the target. Indeed, so inaccurate were the bombing raids, that the German authorities were often at a loss as to what the RAF was attempting to hit. Moreover, as losses at the hands of the increasingly sophisticated German night-fighters increased, with sinkings of merchant s