rly demonstrating the superiority of carrier based naval power over surface fleets. However, once the carrier fleet had been crippled at Midway, the IJN demonstrated its lack of understanding of the true role of air powerin Pacific operations by frittering away its highly trained naval aviators in a gruelling series of duties around the Solomons in late 1942 and early 1943. First Yamamoto and then his successor Admiral Koga deployed naval aviators on ground bases to supportoperations in the southern Pacific. Over two-thirds of the fleet air forces were lost in this manner, and by the end of 1943 the Japanese had sacrificed more than 7,000 aircraft and aircrew. 16 With no effective means of replacing these losses, Japanese naval air power declined rapidly. Already outnumbered by early 1943, Japanese air power was swamped by odds of some five to two by January 1944.17 By the time of the Battle of the Philippine Sea in June 1944, and despite considerable effort, the IJN’s carrier forcewas, comparatively, a pale shadow of its former self, consisting of nine carriers (of which only five could be classed as fleet carriers) and 450 aeroplanes, many of which were obsolete and with pilots who lacked proper training. In stark contrast the USNavy could call upon 15 fleet aircraft carriers and over 900 modern carrier aircraft. Once again illustrating its lack of appreciation of anti-submarine warfare, the IJN lost two priceless carriers to US submarines, but of more significance was the enormousgap that had opened up between Japanese and US carrier air power. During the battle, on 19 June 1944, in what the American navy christened the “Great Marianas Turkey Shoot”, US naval interceptors downed over 300 aircraft in a day for the loss ofjust 31. Follow up counter attacks reduced the Japanese carrier arm still further and the IJN’s air power was to play no further significant role in the Pacific War. 18 By the time of Leyte Gulf, the invasion of the Philippines in November 1944, t