ate opponents, the latter to support the possible land based conflict. Britain, with limited financial resources, was desperate to avoid another continental commitment on the scale of World War I and the massed bomber fleet was viewed as a means of doing just that by preventing a war from breaking out in Europe – the deterrent effect. Much more could be spent on the RAF at the expense of the army thanks to protection afforded by the English Channel. The French were not so lucky. Even with the Maginot Line, the French considered the land battle the most crucial part of their national strategy and in spite of the Armee de l’Air’s  efforts to broaden air power thinking, the limited air rearmament which took place was still largely shaped and influenced by notions of supporting the army. The USSR, technically the largest air force in the world throughout the 1930s, also placed most resources in army support,although dabblings with long-range bombing also took place. The USA, even more isolated than Britain, was able to concentrate its air power resources on long-range bombardment and on naval air power, while Japanese air power was directly subordinated to the demands of the army and the navy. In essence, it is clear that air rearmament choices had to be made, and while airmen around the world saw potential in many aspects of air power, degrees of value on respective forms of air strength had to be established. Combining an understanding of doctrine and air power capability and fitting it to national requirements was the first step on the road to rearmament, although, of course, it did not always produce effective air forces. Interservice rivalry was a cause of skewed investment, as was slavish adherence to dogma, and such distorting influences often interfered with what might have been considered the correct path of aerial development. However, a crucially important influence on air power rearmament was the ability of states to build what was eventually decided upon. T