was appointed to the XXI Bomber Command in the Marianas to launch the final aerial assault on Japan. Many had staked their reputations on the success of the offensive, General Arnoldincluded, but they were soon to be disappointed. The B-29 had been rushed intoservice and its engines were still unreliable, resulting in high abort and accident rates.Moreover, the first crews deployed in the Marianas had been trained in night-timeradar bombing for duties in India and China. Such tactics were quite unsuitable for operations over Japan, while the tactics of high altitude day-time precision bombing proved fraught with practical difficulties. Most importantly, the weather caused significantproblems, with vast cloud fronts disrupting formations and high tail winds creatingground bombing speeds of 550 knots, quite beyond the technology and training ofbomb-aiming equipment and bombardiers respectively. 56 The bombing attacks caused little damage to Japanese industry and the whole programme seemed on the point of collapse. For the USAAF and General Arnold, aiming in the long-term to gain an independent US Air Force, the failure presented real political difficulties. The B-29s might easily be  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 204 --- THE WAR IN THE FAR EAST, 1937–45 193given to the army and the navy for operational support at the direction of MacArthur or Nimitz, both of whom had already expressed reservations about the validity ofbombing Japanese cities. Indeed, the whole basis of strategic air war was under threat.In January, Hansell was replaced and Arnold consolidated all B-29 forces (XX andXXI Bomber Commands) in one group with General Curtis LeMay as commander. A tough and efficient leader, LeMay, in a similar fashion to Harris with Bomber Command in 1942, pulled the US forces together with reshaped operational practices and amajor shake up in personnel. Initially, however, he encountered the same problemsthat had confounded Hansell, and although morale in his force h