pe both at strategic and tactical levels meant that it would be much harder in the future to draw the Western Allianceaway from such a strategy because the alternative, major expansion of conventional forces, was financially unpalatable. Secondly, and perhaps more importantly, by the early 1960s the Warsaw Pact forces also had tactical nuclear weapons, undermining thedeterrent effect that NATO’s short-range nuclear weapons might have had. By the late 1960s, NATO defence strategy was in a state of flux. Western Europe was in effect still depending for its defence on nuclear weapons and, in particular, the  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 224 --- AIR POWER AND THE POST -WAR WORLD 213USA’s massive intercontinental arsenal. This however, as has been explored, lacked credibility: the USA wanted to confine a war to Europe and at all costs aimed to avoid massive escalation which would result in a nuclear holocaust. The attempt in 1967 to adopt so-called “flexible response”, in effect dealing with each problem as it emergedwith a variety of forces, did little to solve the underlying issue that NATO was in no fit state to stop a Warsaw Pact attack by conventional means – at some stage nuclear escalation would be required. In contrast, Warsaw Pact strategy was to rely on conventional forces and avoid nuclear escalation, for quite obvious reasons. Indeed, Soviet air power was more conventionally based, although tactical nuclear capability existed to be deployed ifNATO escalated a confrontation, or if the situation warranted it. Soviet air doctrine was predicated on the axioms established during World War II and centred on the use of air forces to support any ground offensive in Europe. Much of Soviet air strengthwas intended to seize air superiority, or at least to eliminate the threat of NATO air power to War-saw Pact ground forces. 40 T o compound the problem for NATO, Soviet air forces obtained the lion’s share of an overall four per cent per annum increase inSoviet de