g in China was also limited in impact. A little over 300,000 tons of equipment and fuel was flown “over the hump” into China prior to 1945 andmost of this went to Chennault’s US air units or to support operations into northern Burma from China. Little, therefore, went to aid the Chinese struggle against the Japanese, and the airlift was largely symbolic of US aid to China rather than of muchmaterial value. 43 The role of air power in the strategic planning for the Pacific war prior to 7 December 1941 was still a matter of some debate. It has already been outlined that theUS Navy was agonizing over the true role of maritime aviation, although the expansion of the US carrier fleet was underway in 1941 to such a degree that Japan could not possibly keep up. Indeed Japan’s perception of a marked inferiority in carrier aviationwhich was likely to emerge by the middle of the 1940s, was one of the causes of the outbreak of war. Nevertheless, the US Navy itself was not entirely convinced that the aeroplane was now the decisive weapon in naval warfare and the notion of a decisiveJutland style engagement still pervaded US Naval planning. 44 US naval expansion for the 1940s was aimed at creating a balanced fleet for surface engagements – battleships and aircraft carriers – although the notion of operating carriers in independent taskforces was starting to take root. Pearl Harbor and the months which followed were to change all of that. With their battleships at the bottom of Pearl Harbor or sufficiently damaged to put them out ofaction for the foreseeable future, the US Navy was forced into adopting a more carrier based strategy. Admiral Chester Nimitz, Commander-in-Chief of the Pacific Fleet, pursued a policy of using his carriers to harass the Japanese, without overly  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 199 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 188Table 7.2 – Frontline carrier tonnage, 1930–44 risking his now most vital commodity. With only small numbers of carriers and no