and planning was often lacking. The primary concern of air power strategists, and indeed most military thinkers between 1945 and the early 1990s, was the confrontation between the USA and the USSR, with other minor nuclear powers only playing a limited role. The interaction between air power and this confrontation was essentially two way: air power dictatedwhat was theoretically feasible, and thus at times drove policy, while peculiar politicaland economic forces drove air power development in certain directions to meet specificstrategic requirements. Perhaps the most significant theorist in the early era of nuclear strategy was Bernard Brodie who quickly recognized certain axioms of the future of air power, and indeed of national strategies. Brodie identified that atomic weaponry had in fact proved to bethe salvation of strategic air war, because the reality was that no state would in thefuture be able to mount such a ruinously expensive war of attrition to gain commandof the air as had been conducted by the USAAF and the RAF over Germany between1940 and 1945. Only then had strategic bombing really started to prove decisive. This passes over the indirect yet crucial impact of the strategic air war on Germany, but the point was well made. The atomic bomb negated the need for a massive air superioritycampaign, for one aircraft with one atomic bomb could do the task of a whole fleetof conventional strategic bombers in one mission. Although Brodie was critical ofDouhet in other ways, he acknowledged that with the atomic bomb, the principles ofDouhetism had, by a combination of events that the Italian could not possibly have foreseen, come to fruition. 6 The future of war was therefore to be radically different. Rather than planning to win wars, the need was now to prevent them and thus the policy of deterrence began to develop. Despite the claims of others, such as Edward  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 216 --- AIR POWER AND THE POST -WAR WORLD 205Earle,7 that st