d over 3,000 suicide attacks in which some 49 ships were sunk, including three carriers, while 280 ships were damaged of which 44 were carriers. 19 Although the kamikaze  attacks presented a new and extreme kind of problem for the Allies, ultimately it was no answer to the vast superiority in numbers held by the western forces. Moreover, the usual perception of the kamikaze  pilots as brainwashed fanatics seeking a glorious afterlife is inaccurate. Most were not soldiers but students, who were motivated by notions of honour and pride in the traditions of their families and country. Nevertheless, the kamikaze  strategy illustrated all too vividly the differing attitudes of Japan and the West to modern war .20 The Japanese predilection with “offensive” duties manifested itself in other ways which impinged on air power performance in the war. The IJN, like other Japanesemilitary institutions, emphasized heavily the role of élan, or military spirit in warfare, mirroring European thought, especially that of the French, on the eve of the Great War in 1914. The First World War proved, however, that technology, of which air powerwas a prime example, was a more than important factor in the conduct of modern warfare. Japan was yet to accept this, despite the lessons of the skirmishes with the technically superior Soviet armed forces in the late 1930s. Consequently, Japan wentto war with a narrow view of the requirements for military success, and technology was an area that suffered from some neglect. However, these failings should not be overstated as the Japanese had relatively efficient radio detectors and in certain frontlinebattle type technologies they were ahead of the USA on the outbreak of war, for example in some areas of aircraft and torpedo design. Nevertheless, in general the Japanese military eschewed the “boffin” and technical war much loved by the western powers. The lack of radar in the early stages of the war was a serious disadvantage and was largely respons