the arguments over the extent to which the aircraft would revolutionize naval warfare began in earnest, though the most significant role of the aircraft at sea, convoy protection,was strangely overlooked. There was even the first hint of the use of airborne troops when the American air power enthusiast, Billy Mitchell, argued in 1918 for the dropping of an entire division behind German lines. Perhaps the area which attracted mostattention was that of strategic bombing. This was the one way in which air power might be able to decide the outcome of a war. Indeed, despite all the problems encountered by the French and the Germans, Allied plans for strategic bombing in1919 were ambitious indeed. The fact that they went untested was perhaps a contributing factor to the unquestioned slavish beliefs that persisted in some air forces throughout the interwar years. The divide between the arch air power proponents andthe heads of the older services was increasing by the end of the war and was to continue to cause disagreements for much of the 1918–39 era. The degree of technical advancement in aircraft design in the Great War remains unclear. Contemporary views included Hugo Junkers, who stated prior to the war that a conflict would certainly boost aerial development, 68 while his compatriot Ernst Heinkel believed that the war had moved on aero-technology by six years in the spaceof four-and-a-half. 69 Extreme views included French Air Chief, General Duval, who  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 79 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 68claimed that the war had accelerated aerial development some 50 years,70 to the German historian Gerhard Wissmann who believed that because of the profiteeringnature of capitalist systems and the demands of mass-production, the war had actually retarded development. 71 John Morrow takes a more balanced view stating that, while the demands of war had hindered careful examination of advances made and some development had been haphazard, in g