roximately 30,000) for Operation Olympic,  the invasion of Japan in November 1945, were still considered high enough that whatever air power had hitherto achieved it was not in itself enough, until Hiroshima, to force a successful conclusion to the war. The totality of war Important and crucial as air forces proved to be in winning wars, the direct effect on operations and campaigns was only part of the impact of air power on war. There weremany broader and deeper aspects to the new age of air oriented war than the ability of aircraft to win battles, the most important being air power’s role and place in the development of total war. As a concept, total war is widely used when referring to thetwo world wars, though it remains a loose and imprecise term. Although it was used by Ludendorff, Goebbels and Churchill at various times, the term really became established with the work of the historian Arthur Marwick in the 1960s. He arguedthat total war could be gauged by the use of a four tier model. For Marwick, total war  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 24 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 13caused mass destruction and devastation; caused great strain on social and political structures within societies; called for the mobilization of previously disadvantagedgroups in war production; and had a profound psychological impact on state and society. More controversially, Marwick argued that total war provoked significant and long-lasting social change. The latter point in particular has been seriously questionedby many historians. But in defining what total war may or may not be, or indeed in analyzing whether or not it ever occurred, Marwick’s model provides a rough starting point. The role of air power in shaping the development of total war was crucial andperhaps was the most significant weapon in this process. 11 There are perhaps two main themes to the wider implications of air power in the age of total war. First, air power clearly exhibits many of the aspects t