pts at flight. The famous legend ofDaedalus and Icarus is told in many languages and many early cultures revered deities who were imagined to have mastered flight. Strangely, the Graeco-Roman cultures, the founders of scientific and secular based western civilization, have few such talesand only the story of Archytas of Tarentum has made an impression from those times.He apparently constructed a wooden dove that was supposedly powered by a jet ofsteam. 2 The first military use of aerial devices came not from the West but with the Chinese invention of the kite around 300 BC and it appears that the Chinese began to use kites to lift men into the air to spot enemy armies and to follow their movements  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 34 --- THE BIRTH OF AIR POWER 23some three centuries later. With the Chinese invention of gunpowder in approximately AD 800 came the rocket, probably the first example of powered flight. They were used with sporadic success to bombard enemy positions and in siege situations. By the time of the wars against the Mongols in the thirteenth century the rockets may well have been stabilized by fins to provide stability in flight and to aid accuracy.3 In Europe and the Middle East, recorded attempts at flight in the Middle Ages usually involved some hapless individuals throwing themselves off towers or mountains and attempting to flap furiously or glide using cloaks. These ended in predictable failure, but in the thirteenth century there were recorded considerations of flying machines and balloon type devices which might conquer the air. However, although the principle of flight was noted, the practicalities remained beyond even wild speculation. Beyond a children’s toy helicopter device which appeared in the fourteenth century, and Leonardo da Vinci’s innovative and curious designs for a clockwork ornithopter a century or so later, the first practical steps in the direction of flight came in the eighteenth century. It had already been establ