d off the defence budget – clearly a “bigger bang for a buck” as was stated by one defence secretary.26 The policy was underpinned by a speech made by Secretary of State John F . Dulles in January 1954, in which he claimed that US defence policy was now predicated upon an instant and “great capacity to retaliate” to Soviet aggression.27  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 219 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 208Thus was born the notion of massive retaliation, a frequently misquoted and misunderstood stratagem. All too readily, commentators perceived that the USA wassetting up a trip wire policy in which any act by the USSR, or indeed acts believed to be backed by the Soviets or China, would be met by a huge nuclear strike by SAC. 28 This of course was patently untrue. The USA maintained flexibility in its approach and it was never accepted policy that a minor war in a remote part of the globe against communist insurgents would result in the devastation of Moscow or Peking, as Dulles made clear later in 1954.29 Nevertheless, flaws in the new air power based policy of national defence quickly emerged. The policy was accepted as being viable only as long as the USA could maintain significant nuclear superiority, but the savings made by relying on the NewLook were considerable and it would take a strong and perhaps foolhardy US administration to revert to an expensive conventional defence policy in the future when the USSR caught up. In other words, a future US government would have todeal with the problem of either persevering with a weakened nuclear deterrent, or investing heavily in considerably expanded conventional forces. Ultimately, it could be argued, this is what the Reagan administration did from 1981 onwards. However, ittook two decades for the USA to accept the problem that had been bequeathed to it by the switch to nuclear defence in the early-to-mid-1950s. Massive retaliation also brought problems for NATO. In the 1950s the Europeans were struggling