ing” have come to accept and place at the back of our consciousness. 12 Even in the USA, far removed from most of this process until the advent of intercontinental ballistic missiles in the 1960s, the fear of air attack grew to incredible proportions in the interwar era. The possibility of Japanese carrier-borne air attack from the Pacific, or German air assault from bases acquired in South America,however far-fetched and remote were considered actual strategic threats. 13  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 25 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 14In many ways it could be argued that air power globalized war for the first time; a process from which few were immune.14 Whole societies became engendered with the notion of Armageddon from the air, long before it became a reality. The roots of this process can be traced back to the first air war novels of the late nineteenth andearly twentieth centuries. Jules Verne and H.G. Wells, the most famous of these novelists, both described how air power would revolutionize world civilization, rendering age old structures of societies redundant. H.G. Wells’ The war in the air  (1908) described great air battles between European airship fleets in which the USA itself ultimately became embroiled. By the 1930s, filmic depictions of the end of the world order brought about by massive air wars – Wells’ Things to come  – combined with the First World War panics about how societies could survive air attack, to produce major concerns within states about the apocalyptic nature of air war. Baldwin’s famous statement that “the bomber will always get through” epitomized better than anyother the real concerns of interwar peoples about their vulnerability to air attack. In Britain, more than any other state, these concerns took root. The Zeppelin and heavy-bomber raids of World War I did cause a considerable public outcry, resulting inthe creation of the world’s first independent air force, the RAF . The real concerns of the British gover