tional research units in each command and these shaped the strategic bombing offensive and the Battle of the Atlantic markedly. 41 The USA started from a much stronger base, but in many ways followed the British pattern. As in Britain, the vital nature of maintaining “cutting edge technology” and utilizing it in a military context  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 155 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 144was clearly understood. Operational analysis, already well established in the USA, was enthusiastically adopted by the US air forces, again to considerable effect.42 The British and Americans were also able to pool their resources to a significant degree, gaining considerable advantages from an expanded scientific community and base. Centimetric radar received a boost from international co-operation and of course the development of the atomic bomb was enhanced in the middle stages by the co- ordination of Allied efforts. Moreover, the Allies had access to the wider world’s scientific resources, access which of course was denied to the Axis powers. For Germany the mobilization of its strong scientific community and establishment proved inordinately difficult, though many problems were self-inflicted. In the same way that the Luftwaffe  and the Nazi hierarchy failed to appreciate the role civilians and industry had to play in the air war, so they unwittingly contrived to undermine their own scientific efforts. The strength of the German scientific community had already been eroded by the loss of eminent personnel thanks to the nature of the Nazi state, in particular the manner in which it tried to direct research. Many scientists left to work abroad and eventually ended up working for the Allies, thus compounding the failure for Germany.43 In the direction of its research, Germany was equally lax, not creating a central body until 1944, and in the organization of scientific development, effort was sporadic at best and riddled with party sycophancy. Actual desi