ations. Even before the war broke out, there had been contemplation of the nature of aerial combat and its importance to ground operations. Such terms as “air superiority”,  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 62 --- THE FIRST WORLD WAR, 1914–18 51“air supremacy” and “mastery of the air” were bandied about, usually then as now, in an interchangeable fashion. Y et again the importance of reconnaissance duties was emphasized. Major Frederick Sykes, later to be the RAF’s second Chief of Air Staff (1918–19), commented in 1913 that gaining command of the air was an essentialprecursor to ground operations. 22 This would have to be achieved through aerial combat, though the obstacle of how such actions could be fought remained. Until the advent of the Lewis and Hotchkiss machine guns in 1911/12 which weighedconsiderably less than rival heavier machine guns, there were no viable aerial anti- aircraft weapons. By the outbreak of war the linking of machine guns with aircraft was still in its infancy and there were no true fighter aircraft until 1915. Indeed, in theearly stages of the war, combat between aircraft was frowned upon to a degree and such fighting as there was relied on individual initiative. Additionally, it should be remembered that the aircraft of 1914/15 were still technologically primitive. BritishBEs could manage speeds of only 60 mph and with an operational ceiling of 3,000 feet it was enormously difficult to catch, let alone attack, enemy aircraft. Moreover, many single-engined aircraft had “tractor” type engine arrangements where thepropeller was fixed on the front of the aircraft and pulled the aircraft, as opposed to the “pushers” which had the propeller to the rear of the engine/wing assembly and thrust the aeroplane. The former arrangement proved to be most efficient in the long-term but also naturally prevented the use of forward firing machine guns, as pilots still had to fire their guns manually at this time. Initially, it was the French who were t