ncern of airship designers. The first rigid airship (where the hydrogen envelope was supported and protected by an aluminium frame) was designed by the Austrian David Schwartz. The inaugural flight of this aircraft ended in destruction too, although this was probably due to poor handling and inappropriate weather conditions. Nevertheless, the Schwartz rigid airship design inspired Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin to pursue its development in order to create a new weapon for Germany. Despite many setbacks and failures, by 1909, long after the Wrights had flown the first true aircraft, Zeppelin was operating commercial airships to fund his military activities and to make the German people more air- conscious. The success of Zeppelin’s airships caused some concern in Britain and France, and attempts to copy the German success subsequently followed. Clearly with the advent of true dirigible airships in the first few years of the twentieth century, air power had arrived. Before the Wrights proved to the world that heavier- than-air craft could fly, balloons were being used in warfare, as the British had most recently demonstrated in the Second Boer War (1899–1902), and the airship appeared to be the way ahead for offensive military air power. The Wrights and the arrival of powered flight The scientific investigation into heavier-than-air flight had already been pursued in the nineteenth century by, among others, William Henson and John Stringfellow who carried out experiments on powered models.11 However, the first real advocate of  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 37 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 26heavier-than-air flight was the Scarborough-based British enthusiast Sir George Cayley. Between 1796 and 1853 he proposed helicopter designs and, importantly, the use offixed wing gliders which he eventually constructed and had flown. The problem of powering the flight was still effectively beyond prevailing technology, but the basic founding principles of fully direc