he expansion of war into the air resulted in significant changes to perceptions ofwhat was acceptable in wartime conditions. Targeting cities and industrial centrescertainly appeared to make good strategic sense, but clearly there was far more to this issue than mere military expediency. Bombing urban centres, on whatever pretext, meant killing civilians and to many this was an unwelcome and immoral escalation ofthe already brutal activity of war. Y et, arguably, the conduct of war throughout history has been influenced less by morality and more by military capability, balanced by political acceptability. This in turn has been shaped by the objectives for which asociety was fighting. In total war environments, both the stakes and the military capability have been high, resulting in the use of previously unparalleled methods of waging war. Ultimately, the key factor for the legitimacy of a stratagem has been its effectiveness.Would it allow you to win and bring the war to a speedy conclusion? Aerial bombing clearly offered the greatest challenge to those who sought to limit war to military personnel. However, even before 1914, the distinction between combatantand non-combatant had become blurred and the scale of mass industrial war was often to render such notions worthless. Attempts to outlaw or limit the effects of bombing ultimately came to very little and, as has often been the case in war, technicalcapability and political need have usually dictated the level of violence in conflicts. Even at a theoretical stage, the emergence of air power served to cause debate at the  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 16 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 51899 and 1907 Hague Conferences which were set up to offer guidelines to moderate the conduct of war. There were immediate ambiguities as attacks on undefended  urban centres, by whatever means, were not allowed, but naval bombardment of a military target was, even if in the vicinity of the civilian population.4 Moreov