pand its air power potential. It was clear that effective air forces were crucial to modern warfare and the ability of industry to provide the aircraft and equipment required was essential. In this industrial war, the Allies were to be considerably more successful than their Axis opponents. The roots of the decline of the Luftwaffe  as an important fighting force from 1941 onwards can in part be traced to the failings and inefficiencies of the German aero-industry in maintaining its lead developed during the pre- and early-war years. In part this decline was linked to the second pivot of air power success: the ability to harness and integrate all that science, technology and mass-production had to offer. Again, in this field the Allies were to leap ahead of the Axis powers as the war progressed. Although theGermans were able to design new aircraft and develop cutting edge technologies, they were palpably unable to produce them en masse,  resulting in the growing inferiority of Luftwaffe  aircraft not only in terms of numbers but also in levels of technical capability. For example, the Messerschmitt Bf109 was the backbone of the German fighter arm throughout the Second World War and, indeed, in 1939–40 it was equal to the Spitfire, the leading Allied design. However, Allied fighter aircraft designs developed markedly as the war went on, resulting in new superior types such as the T empest, Thunderbolt, Mustang and Lightning, all of which were available in huge quantities. Of the Luftwaffe  replacements only the Focke-Wulf FW190 was introduced with widespread impact, although of course it was still massively outnumbered, and later jet designs such as the Messerschmitt Me 262 were hampered by production problems, ambitious specifications and political meddling. 30 In addition, the production war was not just about aircraft design, but rested equally on the development of supporting technology. Again the Allies were able to outstrip the Axis powers in Europe by maintain