nese adversaries and were of course available in much larger numbers. Perhaps equallyimportantly, during the period after Pearl Harbor, the direction of Pacific naval operations had fallen to the air admirals, much to the chagrin of the battleship men. The developing war clearly proved that the carrier was the most important weapon and during thistime, despite the reinforcement of the surface fleet, the carrier admirals won control of the US Navy. 50 During the debates with the army over which service should spearhead the drive towards Japan, one of the misgivings of MacArthur and his staffhad been the supposed vulnerability of carriers. The loss of two carriers in late 1942 around the Solomons had seemed to underline this point. The US Navy therefore worked hard on developing fleet doctrine to deal with the issue. The result was themulti-carrier task force, escorted by surface vessels capable of providing anti-aircraft, anti-submarine and gunnery support. The battleship began a new career as an anti- aircraft gunnery platform with the large primary guns being used for amphibiousassault support and to provide protection against any enemy surface vessels which evaded detection and got too close to the carriers. Such a large and multi-faceted force would dominate the central Pacific to such an extent that it would be capableof meeting a land based as well as a carrier based air assault, defeat it and offer more or less continuous support to amphibious landings. The primary function of this large fast carrier/fast battleship task force would be to gain air supremacy, or at least air superiority, over any given area. The small scale carrier groups of 1942, which relied on stealth and surprise to avoid destruction, were to be replaced, partly at the strong behest of Admiral T ed Sherman, with larger self-contained multi-carrier forces. The doctrine for the creation and use of such a force was developed under the tutelage of Admiral John T owers following his arrival in t