rtantly that German war production increased dramatically from 1942 to 1944 in spite of the bombing offensive. Indeed, Garrett argues that bombing probably increased German industrial efficiency by forcing it to pull itself together. There is no doubtthat the German war economy did expand significantly following Albert Speer’s appointment as Reichsminister of Armaments, but it is spurious to argue that because production increased then bombing had no real impact. As Garrett also argues, therewas considerable slack in the German economy that was not taken up until Speer’s appointment and it was this, in conjunction with the major reorganization of German industry that brought about the increase in production. Strategic bombing acted as abraking effect on this increase, hampering attempts to expand output by disrupting and crippling the industrial infrastructure of Germany. As Richard Overy has put it, during the last two years of the war the German manager had two battles to fight: oneto increase production, the other against the chaos and disruption caused by precision and area bombing. 93 Tank and aircraft production for 1944 was around a third lower than planned and the denial of such resources to the German armies dramatically aided the efforts of the advancing Allied armies. German production targets for 1945  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 177 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 166aimed at manufacturing 80,000 aircraft, but dispersal and bombing had reduced the 1944 level to 36,000, just 8,000 more than the Japanese, who did not suffer seriousbombing or disperse their industry until late 1944. Bombing clearly kept the expansion of German industrial output to manageable proportions for the Allies. 94 In addition, the impact on the morale of the German workforce is often overlooked. Around a third of the urban population under threat of bombing had no protection at all during raids, and in major cities they saw some 55–60 per cent of their homes destroye