hs and legends have grown and been fostered by generations of air power thinkers, writers and practitioners. Nevertheless, no matter how mythical their influence now appears to be, there is no denying that Douhet, and to a lesser extent Mitchell, have been, and continue to be, cited as the father figures of modern air power. Douhet had a stormy carrier as an officer in the Italian army where, surprisingly, he had little contact with air forces, only lasting in his post as director of the Aviation Section from 1913 to 1914. He was transferred after disciplinary hearings, only returning briefly in 1918, and again in 1922  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 86 --- THE DEVELOPMENT OF AIR POWER DOCTRINE AND THEORY 75when he was appointed Sub-secretary of Aeronautics by Mussolini. He soon left this position and concentrated on his writing from 1923. Lee Kennett even suggests thatDouhet may never have learned to fly. 8 However, it was for his writing that Douhet was to claim his place in air power history. He was certainly writing up his opinions before the Great War but controversypersists as to the extent and nature of his thinking at that time for there is no evidence that it was any more theoretically advanced than the work of other contemporary writers. 9 After 1918, Douhet became more involved in the debates concerning the future of war, though his writing was largely based on the strategic requirements of Italy in the post-war era, a point that is often overlooked.10 The key text in Douhet’s carrier was The command of the air  published in 1921, and in an expanded and more strident form in 1927. It was here that the key points of Douhet’s philosophy can be gleaned.11 In essence, his theory on the use of air power can be encapsulated quite briefly. He believed that in times of war there was no longer the distinction between combatants and civilians. As war was now a matter of whole nation states confronting each other, their civilian populations were now legitimate