al with airframe output and too narrow and restrictive over engine production.65 However, one can be too critical over these failings, and it must be noted that the Germans were forced into a defensive air strategy by a combination of numerical inferiority and increasing material deficiencies. In contrast, the Allies could be more aggressive and profligate with their uses of air power, safe in the knowledge that replacements would probably be forthcoming. T echnological superiority was crucial to the Germans to make good their deficiencies in numbers, but they were increasingly unable to translate this into any battlefront advantage. In the closing stages of the war the Germans were ahead in aircraft technology, with the innovative work of Hugo Junkers resulting in the J.10, the first all metal, low wing, cantilever aircraft,66 and the Fokker D7. However, the simpler Allied designs were effective enough and much easier to mass-produce. The greater realization by the Allies that efficient mass-produced aircraft were the key to success in modern war was borne out by the events in theclosing two years of the conflict and the lessons were to be used 20 years or so later in World War II. What is also worth noting is that mass-production did not result in poor quality aircraft. Although the Germans had superior airframe designs, the overall technological aspect of the air war had swung decisively towards the Allies by late 1917, as a result of a combination of effective qualitative superiority in key areas, notably engine design, and considerable quantitative advantages across the board. Conclusions Historians have tended to polarize in their estimations of the impact of air power onWorld War I, tending to claim that air power contributed either a great deal or, conversely, very little. Moreover, too much attention has been paid to the impact of the war on the development of air power in light of what came later. Consequently, there has been something of an overestimation