es were crude. Although parachutes were provided should the observer need to escape, they occasionally failed to work, and in any case offered little chance of survival should the hydrogen filled balloon explode above and come crashing down on thehapless observer. 16 Efforts to offer better protection to balloons, such as attendant anti-aircraft guns, were partially successful but did not mask the fact that the balloon, despite certain inherent advantages was not a viable long-term option for armyreconnaissance work. Balloons were often targeted by the enemy in an attempt to deny their artillery appropriate guidance, and increasingly as the war went on balloons fell foul of deliberate enemy action. Unlike reconnaissance aeroplanes which had tobe actively hunted, balloons could not escape, and if the enemy was inclined they could blind a sector’s artillery fire for a length of time by attacking and destroying the balloons, which of course they could locate quite easily. 17 The reconnaissance aeroplane had already proved its worth during the short period of mobility in the summer of 1914. However, it took some time for armies to establish firm and reliable lines of communication between airmen and staff headquarters, andmany valuable reports and pieces of information went astray, or were ignored in the near chaos of the first summer of the war. Nevertheless, aeroplanes played a significant role on the Eastern Front where the war continued to show a degree of mobility,when the war on the Western Front had degenerated into a muddy stalemate. Indeed, Field Marshal von Hindenburg was especially grateful for the information provided by German airmen prior to the crushing victory over the Imperial Russian forces atTannenburg. 18 The value of aerial reports was also noted by Joffre in the lead up to the Marne, and by the British at Mons, and consequently led to a re-evaluation of the role of aircraft. The experience of the summer of 1914 convinced many ground forcecommanders