an radar. However, Harris’ greatest effort, the attempted destruction of Berlin over the winter of 1943–4, resulted in excessive casualties to his command and failed to cripple Germany as he had hoped. The US 8th also failed in its disastrousdouble raid on the ball bearing factory at Schweinfurt in August and October. Markedout as a crucial chokepoint in the German economy, the US bombers suffered grievouslyin their attempts to destroy the complex. Some success was achieved but not even theUSA could endure casualty rates of over 68 per cent. 83 Eaker had already indicated that he believed that the destruction of the Luftwaffe and the gaining of air supremacy over Europe was the key to success: hence thePointblank  directive of May 1943 which called for the persistent targeting of the German aero-industry. However, he failed to appreciate the significance of his bombers’vulnerability to German interceptors, unless escorted by Allied fighters. This was toprove the breakthrough in the combined bomber offensive and was to have major consequences beyond the direct bombardment of Germany itself. The doctrine of the USAAF had been founded on the notion that the bomber would always getthrough. In any case, it was argued, fighters simply did not have the endurance toallow them to escort bombers over any great distance. Attempts to create long-rangefighters had always foundered, resulting in low performance, heavy, twin-engine fighters,such as the Luftwaffe ’s Bf 110, a design quite unable to cope with enemy high- performance single-engine fighters. However, it was clear to General “Hap” Arnold (Commander-in-Chief, USAAF) by the middle of 1943 that the only way the Luftwaffe ’s fighter strength could be neutralized was by sending US escort fighters to do battlearound the bomber formations as they travelled to and from their targets. The key to this was finding a fighter that would be able to fly to Berlin and back. 84  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 171 --- AIR POWER IN