ushed into action, sent aloft with inadequate training and preparation, and promptly frittered away. The BBC comedy series Blackadder  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 54 --- THE FIRST WORLD WAR, 1914–18 43goes forth  humorously depicted the life expectancy of new pilots, once airborne, as being 20 minutes. The truth was not too far removed. A single day’s losses on hazardouslow level operations could be almost a quarter and aircraft replacement rates often ran at over 50 per cent. In view of the fact that aerial forces used in the Great War were not large until the last 18 months or so, the casualty figure of over 50,000 airmen is anindication of the high attritional rates incurred by air forces. Indeed, the casualty rates ran at somewhere approaching 50 per cent, especially in the British air forces which pursued a distinctly offensive and aggressive aerial strategy for much of the war. Deathrates were also alarming, with 15 per cent of airmen trained by the French being killed, while the British and Germans may have suffered even higher levels. 4 The fact that many aircrew were lost in landing and as a result of basic flying accidents underlinesthe inadequacies of training. 5 Tragically, more British pilots were killed in training than in combat.6 Moreover, the notion that the famous airmen of the Great War were in some way chivalrous is also largely exaggerated and steeped in mythology. The age of the individual ace of the air was a relatively short one because, by 1917, air forces had grown to such sizes that tactics and operations were dominated by large formations and combinedeffort rather than singular heroism. Nevertheless, many “heroes” did emerge to dominate the attentions of contemporary and post-war air combat writing. Their “knightly” and heroic image however, is open to debate, not least because it was largely a product ofwartime propaganda. Success in aerial combat was often linked with technological advantage, and had little to do with prowess o