pparent. Germany had, to all intents and purposes, been eliminated as a world power and the face of eastern Europe was irrevocablyaltered. Even the supposed victors, Britain and France, were in reality no longer capable of pursuing active foreign policies such as they had before 1914. If the Second World War was to bring about the end of the age of European supremacy, then the GreatWar was to lay the foundations for such far reaching change. In grand strategic and political terms, the world after 1918 was radically different to that of four years earlier and it was to the politicians, leaders and strategists of the immediate post-war yearsthat the task of managing this transition fell. The post-1918 sentiment that the Great War had been the “war to end all wars” was in truth nothing more than sanguine speculation, for the war had done little to solve the underlying problems of thewestern world. Moreover, the perception that future wars could and would be eliminated was held largely by those for whom a widespread restructuring of the world’s power systems was unnecessary. This effectively equated to those who hadwon, or had at least maintained what they held or desired from, the First World War. What was universally accepted by the world’s major powers in the post-war era was the belief that a future re-fight of World War I was unthinkable and untenable. For thevictors, another such conflict would not only be politically undesirable, but it could also actually be catastrophic and would probably result in the loss of everything that had been secured by the fighting of 1914–18. For the defeated or disgruntled of the  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 82 --- THE DEVELOPMENT OF AIR POWER DOCTRINE AND THEORY 71Great War, a total economic war of the kind just fought not only offered the prospect of great hardship and misery but it also offered little prospect of success. Germany had lost in 1918 and in a weakened state why should the outcome in a future war be any diffe