, Japan was defeated by US drives across the Pacific, the so-called island hopping offensives, offensives dominated by air power to a degree unknown in Europe. Additionally, air power continued unabated in the acceleration towards total war. Indeed, the two aspects of total war brought about by air power, as previously discussed, were emphasized yet further in the war against Japan. First, the degree and prosecutionof the strategic bombing offensive against Japan from 1944 to 1945 reached proportions and levels of savagery un-known in Europe. General Curtis Le May’s “torching of Japan” witnessed the abandonment of any qualms the USAAF may have had regardingthe indiscriminate bombing of civilians. The systematic destruction and levelling of Japanese cities was on an unprecedented scale and, of course, culminated in the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945. If the totality of war wasever brought home to civilian populations it was during the strategic bombing offensive against Japan, perhaps even more so because Japan never had any effective defence against such an assault. Still further, the air war against Japan demonstrated, more emphatically than the war in Europe, the burgeoning demands made on economies, populations and industries by air campaigns and the consequences of not meeting the challenge. Even more sothan Germany, Japan had little concept of what modern industrial war was and, as a result, air power was the first armed force to decline once the USA had dragged Japan into a gruelling war of attrition. The disparity in the respective approaches to warbetween the USA and Japan was illustrated by the growing gap between the air forces of the two combatants, from late 1942 onwards. The US was fully appreciative of the demands made on economies by modern war, while Japan was to suffer from many ofthe productive and mobilization problems that beset Nazi Germany, indicative of a less sophisticated and more martially oriented approach to war.