lusions of the Europeans, as the “flyer” easily outperformed  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 41 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 30the best that the French had and, despite the claims of the official French history of military aviation, it was the Wrights who provoked the dramatic upturn in the interestin aerial matters. 22 Wilbur Wright made over 100 flights in France in 1908, including one flight of three hours which covered 80 miles. One member of the Aero Club de France claimed that “compared with the Wrights we are as children”.23 In October of 1908 Henri Farman flew from Bouy to Reims, approximately 30 kilometres, but the real importance was that he had taken off without having to return to the lift-off field, thus adding greatly to the practical military use of aircraft.The Germans took note, with the General Staff pushing for the development of German aeroplanes, against a wary War Ministry which wanted private enterprise to deliver aircraft first. By the end of the year, ten German companies were endeavouringto build aircraft, but the airships of Count Zeppelin still led the way in German air power development. 24 In Britain individuals and small groupings such as the Short brothers, pursued aeroplane development and the War Ministry saw fit to issuespecifications for a desired aircraft, demonstrating their interest in aerial matters. 25 However, it was the ceaseless efforts of Lord Northcliffe, the newspaper baron, whichreally pushed air power in Britain. In the USA, foreign interest in the Wrights promptedfurther government investigation into flight and in 1907 an aeronautical division was set up in the Signal Corps. Procurement of an aeroplane and an airship followed. Unsurprisingly, the Wrights won the contract for the aircraft, although a crash in 1908at Fort Myer, Virginia, which injured Orville Wright and killed a passenger caused delay. The US Army did not receive its first aeroplane until the following year. 26 In Austria–Hungary air pow