and luck that was to bring about the collapse of the West in six weeks, a feat that had eluded the Imperial German army for four years. The Luftwaffe  had 1,300 bombers, 380 dive-bombers and 1,210 fighters deployed in support of Operation Fall Gelb  (Case Y ellow, the code name for the invasion of the West) while the Allies mustered some 1,151 fighters and 1,045 bombers and ground-attack aircraft. However, the deficiencies ran much deeper than the figures indicate. First, the Allied air forces were heterogeneous and lacked centralized control and direction, in marked contrast to the Luftwaffe.  Aside from the few British Hurricanes and Spitfires and a very small number of Dutch Fokker types, the Luftwaffe ’s aircraft were technically superior to anything in the Allied inventory, and it was particularly in bomber attackson German forces that the RAF and the French Armee de l’Air  were to suffer. However, the most important factor in the Allied defeat lay in the doctrine of employment of  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 140 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 129the available resources. The Luftwaffe  was used to support the direction of the campaign in a generally co-ordinated manner, massing aircraft to create air superiority where required and sweeping the skies of the more widely dispersed Allied air forces. The offensive opened, as was becoming the norm, with an attempt by the Luftwaffe to cripple the enemy air forces on the ground. The Dutch, Belgian and French airarms were badly mauled on the first day but, as in Poland, the Luftwaffe ’s attacks were indecisive. However, again following the Polish pattern, the real defeat of the RAF and the French Armee de l’Air  came when they attempted to intervene in the ground war by attacking German land forces. The losses from both German fighters and flakdefences were prohibitive. Within two days, half of the Allied aircraft in the combatzone had been destroyed and, by 20 May, with the situation for the British Expeditio