, a tiny fraction of the carnage of the Western Front.55 Y et the disruption caused in London, whether by bombing or by fear and terror, made strategic air offensives look viable and indeed possibly very  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 73 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 62effective. Certainly, the Italian air power advocate, Guilio Douhet, took notice of the situation in London and in other cities subjected to aerial bombing. Paradoxically,similar attention was not paid to the problems encountered by the strategic bombers themselves, not least the heavy losses suffered once the defenders had properly organized themselves. Moreover, the initial panic soon faded when it became clear that defencewas viable and that life could go on. It was to remain a serious failing of the air power advocates that they were rather selective in the information they relied upon to prove their arguments. Nevertheless, strategic bombing had become firmly embedded in air power consciousness as a result of the Great War, even though there was little of real substance to support some of the wild claims that were subsequently made. It was as much thepolitical impact of the raids on London that laid the foundations for the often slavish beliefs of the RAF in the interwar era. Although national air power strategies were based as much on strategic requirements and necessity after 1918 than service idealsand experiences, it is worth noting that the British suffered more than most from aerial bombing and, along with the USA, they never truly encountered the difficulties of mounting such operations as endured by the Germans and French. T o a degree, thepattern of the interwar era had been formed by 1918 and largely as a result of the various powers’ experiences of the Great War. The economics of air power The expansion of the aero-industries in the First World War was remarkable by any standards and was a clear indication of the importance of economic mobilization to modern war. Once it