ENT OF AIR POWER DOCTRINE AND THEORY 79However, it must be stated that the inability of the RAF to develop the doctrine necessary to prosecute their strategic bombing theories was in part a result of thepoor funding of the service in the 1920s and early 1930s. Nevertheless, it is clear that near blind faith in RAF bombing strategy was required in the interwar era and the consequences of this myopia, which persisted during the first two years of the war,became all too apparent with the appalling casualties endured by Bomber Command until the closing stages of World War II. 22 In contrast to the tentative British experience of bombing in World War I, the US Army Air Forces (USAAF) had nothing similar on which to base their interwar theorizing, although the results were studied. Vicarious learning is rarely absorbed and the history of war and conflict is no different. However, like the British they were ableto formulate their thinking without having to consider the needs of the ground forces too much. In addition, the US Navy had its own air forces so maritime air power was also beyond the US Army’s remit. Nevertheless, the US air forces containedwithin the army were determined in the long term to establish themselves as an independent force and it was the theory of strategic bombing or bombardment which appeared to offer the best chance of achieving this. Although strategic bombing was to take root in the US Army Air Service (or Air Corps [USAAC] from 1926) it was to follow a different line to that pursued by the RAF . Initially, the Americans were influenced by the thinking of Colonel Edgar Gorrell,who had been appointed as head of Strategical Aviation and since 1917 had been studying strategic bombing. Gorrell was influenced by British ideas, and like the RAF he made the distinction between the “moral” and “material” effects of heavy bombing. 23 Whereas the aggressive “morale targeting” notions of the RAF partially reflected the offensive and combative British aeria