t the battleships which were in fact to bear the brunt of the attack. Once the carriers were eliminated, Yamamoto believed, the US Navy would be unwilling to venture forth into seasdominated by Japanese air power whether land or carrier based. While the US Navy rebuilt itself, the Japanese would be able to occupy the resource rich areas of southeast Asia and organize the so-called Greater East-Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere – essentially aJapanese Empire. When the US Navy returned, probably in 1943, the Japanese would be prepared to engage and defeat them in battle in a similar scenario to the old defensive strategy, with reliance again placed on land and carrier based air power, toweaken the Americans preparatory to a huge surface engagement in which the US Navy would be crushed and the US government forced to come to terms acceptable to Japan. Japan’s plans were riddled with flaws and misconceptions, but post-war criticism of Yamamoto’s Pearl Harbor strategy is perhaps unfounded. He recognized the importance of carrier air power and that the destruction of the US carriers in the earlystages of the war was essential to Japan maintaining the offensive long enough to capture the Co-Prosperity Sphere. The fact that the US carriers were absent from Pearl Harbor on 7 December unhinged the plan and eventually resulted in the needfor the Midway operation. Once again, it is clear that gaining air supremacy was considered essential to offensive operations in modern war and, while the US carriers were at large, the threat to Japanese maritime forces would remain high. Midway wasnecessary because of the pivotal role that air power was playing in the Pacific Campaign. The fact that at the Coral Sea battle the IJN had lost a small carrier and had two fleet carriers knocked out of action resolved the issue. Yamamoto could not afford to riskthe continued exposure of his fleet to surprise carrier strikes. Midway was therefore essential. Further criticism of Yamamoto has been levelled b