10 Thus, the Polish air force was never able to intervene in any serious manner with the efforts of the German ground forces, while the Luftwaffe  was able to conduct highly effective army support operations throughout the campaign, virtuallyat will. The importance of maintaining the ability to contest air superiority was alreadybeing proven. Once the enemy had free rein in the air it proved to be a crippling disadvantage for friendly ground forces. The Luftwaffe  was well satisfied with its efforts in the Polish campaign. It had coped with certain air-to-ground communication problems (which were to persist into 1940and beyond), had demonstrated considerable operational flexibility and had proveditself adept at seizing control of the air. Indeed, a plan of aerial operations was establishedover Poland that was to form the basis of Luftwaffe  success over the subsequent two years. The plan was predicated on general and operational air support of ground operations, eschewing both dedicated close air support and strategic bombing. Theformula was repeated in the rapid German descent on Scandinavia in April 1940when air superiority was again a critical advantage, even forcing the much vauntedRoyal Navy, still predominantly a surface force, back to the British Isles. 11 However, it was in the campaigns in the Low Countries and France in May and June 1940, which saw the rout of larger Allied ground forces by the German military, that the real value of the Luftwaffe  in supporting ground offensives came to be understood by the Allies. In 1940 the Luftwaffe  was the one major arm the Germans possessed which was numerically larger than the forces opposing them. In ground forces theWehrmacht  was considerably outnumbered, and it was to be operational effectiveness, Allied failings and luck that was to bring about the collapse of the West in six weeks, a feat that had eluded the Imperial German army for four years. The Luftwaffe  had 1,300 bombers, 380 dive-bombers and 1,210 fig