litary terms made sense if it could be proven to be effective. Despite continuing claims to the contrary, strategic bombing in World War II – area bombing included – did make a major contribution to the defeat of the Axis powers (see Chapter Six), but is this in itself enough? Acceptable behaviour in war is largelydetermined by contemporary attitudes within both the belligerent and neutral societies. The fact that controversy still surrounds the firebombing of Dresden and T okyo, to say nothing of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, implies that westerncivilization was and is uncomfortable with such actions. In part this may be connected with the persisting belief that area bombing did not work and was unnecessary to defeat Germany and Japan. But it is surely also wrapped up with notions of civiliansbeing non-combatants and therefore not being legitimate targets in war. However, in large scale industrial war, and the Second World War in particular, such distinctions become very blurred. Why would those organizing and supporting the  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 17 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 6war effort in Germany be less of a legitimate target than soldiers fighting at the front, especially in an age when most soldiers are conscripts and may have been indifferentsupporters of or even hostile to the Nazi regime? Moreover, are those who build and manufacture the weapons of total war any less culpable than those who use them? The argument that such workers are “undefended” surely collapses with thedevelopment of anti-aircraft guns, high performance interceptors, night-fighters and radar. Ultimately, the ethical problems of strategic bombing vary in proportion to perceptions of effectiveness. If it contributed significantly to the defeat of the Axis powers, then it becomes more acceptable; if it did not, then area bombing in particular becomes indefensible. Those states which used such strategies realized that they weretravelling a dangerou