ries of trials in the early 1920s aimed at proving that aircraft could influence naval operations decisively. In 1921, the ex-Germanbattleship Ostfriesland  was sunk by bomber aircraft and, even though the conditions were ideal for air operations and the target was stationary, the event was of considerable symbolic importance. 60 Prior to this, US naval officers had argued that no battleship could be destroyed by air attack alone. After the sinking of the Ostfriesland  they were constantly forced into evaluating how to defeat the air menace. Unlike Douhet, Mitchell’s views on air power emphasized the wide ranging capabilities of the aircraft,rather than just the strategic. This view was in part dictated by the more isolated strategic position of the USA in relation to any potential enemy who might instigate a strategic bombing campaign. Therefore, Mitchell’s primary concern was to unify airpower into a coherent force in the USA and thus, in his opinion, ensure continental defence. His overstated views and harsh criticisms of the US Navy and Army eventually led to his downfall and court-martial but his exuberant “crusading” for air power hasbrought him his place in air power folklore, particularly in the USA.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 103 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 92Unsurprisingly, the most significant developments in maritime air power in the interwar era emerged in the major naval powers of the world: initially Britain and the USA, and then from the late 1920s onwards, Japan. The geographical positions and national strategies of these powers were crucial factors in the scale and impact of development and doctrinal advancement must be viewed in the context of the international situation in the interwar period. Japan and the USA were already on a long term collision course and any future confrontation would of course take place over the vast expanse of the Pacific Ocean. As such, air power had the potential to be highly effective, initially as