arly stages of the war, having to fight with aircraft unfit for the grand designs of its senior officers. Britain’s most notable achievement in the years leading up to World War II was the transformation of its aero-industry from a small and inefficient sector in the early 1930s to a sophisticated mass-production line by the end of the decade. British aircraft production outpaced the much larger German economy by 1939 and continued to do so until 1943.50 Although the French followed similar strategic principles, of defence and preparing for a long-haul economic war, their attempts to fit air policy to meet such needs failed. From a position of superiority in the early 1920s, French air power fell away dramatically and by the outbreak of war was largely equipped with inadequate numbers of obsolete designs. In essence the French aero-industry, without strong direction from the military and political establishment, and hampered by poorly considered planning and procurements processes, not rectified by attempts at restructuring andreorganization in 1936 and 1937, was quite unable to cope with the demands made of it in the late 1930s (see Chapter Four). Like the British, the French shifted the emphasis of their air rearmament programme towards fighter defence in the late 1930s with the advent of the so-called Plan V .  In discussions with the British in 1938, it was considered that the revamped Armee de l’Air  should confront the Luftwaffe  while the RAF should deal with the threat from the Italian Regia Aeronautica,  illustrating the faith the French put in their aero-industry’s capacity and ability. However, unlike the British, they were unable to develop new designs in any quantity rapidly enough to meet the Luftwaffe in 1940. The Armee de l’Air  and the French aero-industry needed more time than Hitler was to allow them. 51 German front-line air power on the outbreak of war was considerable, but its base was weak and its long-term planning flawed. Economic constraint