are of the British aero-industry’s true production capacity, the Luftwaffe  failed to appreciate the performance of the Hurricane and Spitfire fighters, overlooked the significance of the RAF’s early warning radar and markedly overestimated theeffectiveness of the Luftwaffe  itself. It was considered that RAF Fighter Command could be eliminated in just four days; the rest of the RAF and the British aero-industry in four weeks. 17 Conversely, the British, despite overestimating the strength of the air forces facing them, were already beginning to gain intelligence gathering advantages from the breaking of the German encoding device, Enigma. The Luftwaffe,  partly as a result of poor intelligence and partly thanks to ill-considered strategic decision making, was to change its direction a number of times throughoutthe campaign. Worse still, even when night-time bombing of London had been adoptedthere was no considered policy of targeting and effort was dissipated between morale,transportation and the aero-industries, with the consequence that none was particularly affected. In addition, the Luftwaffe  was forced to fight with a number of other strategic shortcomings and failings. Primarily, the strategic position was such that the Luftwaffe was forced to fight over enemy territory, a significant multiplying effect in rates ofattrition. Whereas the RAF could recover many of its pilots and nurse home damagedaircraft, the Luftwaffe  lost downed pilots and aircrew for good and crippled aircraft were often unable to make the hazardous return flight to France. Arguably, the most fundamental strategic problem facing the Luftwaffe  was that of making the RAF fighters come and fight. Even if the campaign had gone more infavour of the Luftwaffe,  there was nothing stopping the RAF from withdrawing its fighters north, out of range of the Luftwaffe,  and conserving its resources for countering the attempted German invasion. With German naval and invasion forces at a premium,to ris