st in air warfare,the so-called growth in “air mindedness”. Moreover, air forces had to wrestle withmore mundane matters, such as inter-service squabbles with the RAF defending itshard won independence, while US airmen attempted to carve out their own separateidentity. All of this, as much as technology and practical application, was to shape thedevelopment of strategic bombing theory after World War I.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 89 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 78In the RAF such theories were considerably influenced by Sir Hugh Trenchard even before he became Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) in 1918, for during the later stages of the war Trenchard had been commander of the long-range or strategic bombing forces in Europe. It was here that, with insufficient numbers of suitable aircraft tohave much impact on German industry, he adopted a policy of dispersed bombing in the hope of undermining civilian morale. He even deployed his aircraft on interdiction duties to support the ground forces directly. Both of these policies earned him criticismfrom Britain, in particular from Sir Frederick Sykes. After the war, Trenchard became CAS largely because he was considered level-headed and unlikely to press for wild expansion schemes. However, he was a shrewd political operator and did much toensure the survival of the RAF through the “locust years” of the 1920s by selling the idea of using the RAF as a cost-effective imperial police force. He also brought with him particular and developing ideas on strategic bombing, most notably notions onthe “moral effect” of bombing on civilian populations. Trenchard even argued that the ratio of psychological to physical effects in the impact of bombing on a nation was as high as twenty to one. His ideas were fuelled still further by the reports of the Britishbombing survey teams, which had struggled to find much physical evidence of bomb damage in World War I and had thus emphasized what they perceived or hoped were the e