ntil much later in the war when, with theinflux of US equipment and the gradual diminution of German defences, the prospects for bombing offensives against targets as far away as Berlin looked fair. However, practical difficulties remained and the RAF , under Sir Hugh Trenchard, lacking the resources todo much else, largely carried out a series of interdiction raids in an effort to disrupt the zone behind the German lines. Trenchard was heavily criticized by his great rival Sir Frederick Sykes for not adopting a more systematic and strategic approach to thebombing campaign, but anything more was technically beyond the Independent Air Force and losses were still heavy. For 543 tons of bombs dropped on Germany, of which a considerable percentage were dropped on “non-strategic” targets, the RAFsuffered 352 aircraft lost or damaged. The bombing campaign of 1918 resulted in such  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 72 --- THE FIRST WORLD WAR, 1914–18 61little physical damage that post-war analyzers, searching for something to acclaim, emphasized the effect bombing had on morale even though this was difficult toquantify. The roots of the RAF’s interwar raison d’être  were being firmly planted in 1918. 52 In Italy some of the more important developmental work was undertaken by the Italian air forces against the Austrians. Three-engined Caproni bombers had been under development prior to Italy’s entry into the war in 1915 and the Austrians countered with Gothas supplied by the Germans. However, despite a series of raidson Adriatic ports, neither side was able to mount a serious offensive until the Italians mustered some 50 bombers by the end of 1918, by which time the war was grinding to a conclusion. 53 Debate continued on all sides throughout the closing stages of the war as to whether long-range bombing was an effective use of resources. Many believed that air power should be used to support the land battles and that attacks on cities or enemyindustries were merely dist