xpansion of its aero-industry. A framework was put in place such that if war broke  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 152 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 141out it could be quickly filled and used to facilitate rapid increases in aircraft production. The shadow scheme was one particular example whereby a company from another sector of industry would begin producing aircraft by copying the practices and production techniques of a successful aeroplane manufacturer. This allowed boostedproduction, without each new company having to endure a long and arduous procurement process, and concentrated technical development with experienced firms. The identification of air power as a crucial component in long-term national strategy was a key factor in Allied success, and both the capitalist West and communist East aimed to make aircraft production a major priority. All intended to push their industriesto the utmost in order to maximize output. The British revised their monthly output upwards to 3,000, while the USA, once embroiled in the war, intended to reach a target of 125,000 aircraft per year. 31 Soviet aircraft production was already the largest in the world in 1939, but plans were in hand for the transfer and development of production east of the Urals, in order to be able to survive a German assault. German planning was much less ambitious, with the result that as higher targets were not even aimed at they were never going to be attained. Greater concentration was placed on the army’s needs and this was linked with the belief that a war was unlikely to last very long anyway. Thus improvements in aircraft production beyondwhat had already delivered Luftwaffe  superiority by 1939 were deemed unnecessary. In any case, Goering had the existing aero-industry working to capacity, or more precisely, what was considered “capacity” by a slack and inefficient planning administration. 32 The willingness to accept the status quo  was in part caused by Goering’s attempts to demon