ery little. Moreover, too much attention has been paid to the impact of the war on the development of air power in light of what came later. Consequently, there has been something of an overestimation of the importance of strategic bombing and perhaps too little consideration given to the impact of air power on the Great War  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 78 --- THE FIRST WORLD WAR, 1914–18 67itself. This in part has come about thanks to the more excessive claims of the air power enthusiasts who consistently exaggerated the possible impact of the aerial weapon onthe conduct of the war, despite the realities which often confronted them. However, as some historians have argued, the air power advocates were not wrong so much as they were unrealistic: much of what was being claimed about air power both beforeand during the Great War was, in the long term, to come true. As one historian has put it, “the aviators envisaged and promised great things, but their aircraft continually let them down”. 67 It is clear that air power was in some fields an important and occasionally crucial influence on the First World War, but in no particular area can it be viewed as decisive. Although many military leaders recognized that air power had become an integral partof armed forces, it was not in itself the arbiter of success or failure. There were some crucial aspects, such as aerial reconnaissance and artillery direction, which were the most significant parts played by air power, but it could not in itself decide the outcomeof a campaign. Nevertheless, the Great War did see the beginnings of most of the future facets of air power. The concept of air superiority emerged and with it the fighter battles thatrepresent a most striking image of air power. Maritime air power was born and the arguments over the extent to which the aircraft would revolutionize naval warfare began in earnest, though the most significant role of the aircraft at sea, convoy protection,was strangely overloo