new technology, communications, tanks, aircraft and highly effective andwell-directed artillery bombardments providing the means of winning battles with acceptable losses. The success of the British army, especially in the closing stages of the war, did seem to have provided the answer. Unlike the Germans in their initiallysuccessful offensive of 1918 which was spearheaded by stormtrooper infiltration tactics, the Allies realized the necessity of not out-pacing their artillery cover, for without it they would be helpless cannon fodder. The Germans were to discover this when theydid indeed outdistance their supporting artillery in the 1918 offensive and consequently  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 95 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 84suffered fearful casualties. The slow remorseless advance adopted by the Allies in the later stages of the war appeared to have restored a degree of mobility to the battlefield. However, questions remained. Some argued that the effects of the naval blockade and the attritional battles of 1915–17 had so undermined the Imperial German state that the army was collapsing anyway. It was just as reasonable to argue that the Allies had bludgeoned Germany to defeat, and the apparent success on the front line in 1918 had come about thanks to the disintegration of the German army and state, not because of a great leap forward in Allied military planning and organization. The respective perceptions of how victory was achieved were to shape battlefield thinking in the interwar era. The French and British concluded that a combination of factors had brought Germany to defeat and that their armies had to a degree been successful in 1918. In a future war, the French in particular expected a period of defensive, attritional warfare, backed by economic blockade and preparatory to another remorseless advance akin to 1918. The key was the ability to survive the attritional phase of the war without suffering the heavy losses of 1914–17: hence, ul