lation prior to the 1960s upon which to base assumptions about spaceexploration, so the world of the 1900s had to rely on what amounted to, in many cases, science fiction. The roots of air-mindedness lie well in the past, long before powered flight was a practicality. Jonathan Swift referred to aerial bombardment froma flying island in Gulliver’s travels  (1726), while Robert Paltock described flying people in The life and adventures of Peter Wilkins  (1751). There were many other works which alluded to or were based around flight. Curiously, much of the speculation concerningaerial battles between balloons in the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars was pictorial rather than literature based, as I.F . Clarke has argued in his study of war predictions. 16 In 1810, Julian von Voss published Ini: a romance of the twenty-first century  in which he wrote of great airships vying for control of the air in an effort to gather information on enemy armies. As Michael Paris has argued, the growth in air literature was halted by the prevailing post-1815 political climate in which major wars seemed to have been eradicated. It was not until the middle of the century that new perceptions of war again began to emerge. Herrman Lang’s The air battle  (1859) created the most vivid image of great air fleets battling it out in the skies, once the armies and navies had been eliminated. He saw such sky wars as being akin to Napoleonic battle, but curiously did not foresee air-fleets attacking cities directly. The first groundbreaking future war novel, The battle of Dorking  written by Sir George Chesney appeared in 1871, and it precipitated a period of widespread writing on the subject.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 39 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 28However, it was the French novelist Jules Verne who became most associated with aerial warfare books. As early as 1863, Verne was marrying scientific fact and speculation with adventure stories to great effect. He wrote a