his curious situation changed and the fleet air arm was put under the direct control and ownership of the navy. This was much too late to have a marked effect on British carrier based aviation by the Second World War. 61 The Royal Navy (RN) itself had grand schemes for carrier air power during the 1918–39 period. A bold plan for the construction of seven fleet aircraft carriers, to be supported by an assortment of trade protection and light carries was developed, only to founder for a variety of financial and organizational reasons. The RN suffered from being the leading naval power in 1918 and a conservative “wait and see” policy emerged, resulting in a reactive posture that allowed the Japanese and the Americans to seize the  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 104 --- THE DEVELOPMENT OF AIR POWER DOCTRINE AND THEORY 93initiative. This combined with the dual control problem and financial constraints to hinder and indeed retard air power development in the RN. However, it should be noted that even though British carrier procurement and production was repeatedly cut back, the battleship arm suffered even more, thus deflecting the anti-air power myth that has been directed at the Admiralty in the inter-war period.62 Doctrinal debate also centred on land based maritime air power which had played a significant role in protecting Britain’s trade routes during the First World War. This duty was effectively jettisoned in the interwar period as the Royal Navy claimed that the U-boat had been defeated by asdic (sonar) and the practice of convoying. The RAF was more than happy to accept this as it allowed them to withdraw resources from this activity. Moreover, and in spite of a series of tests and trials in the 1920s and 1930s, the development of a land based maritime air force capable of attacking enemy naval vessels also came to very little. The RAF argued that their massed bombing force would be able to deal with such naval threats, even without specialized training. Th