otably in two battles, at Ocotal and on El Saraguazcamountain. Again, it was demonstrated that enemy forces incapable of properly defendingthemselves were especially vulnerable to air attack, even in difficult operating conditionssuch as those in Central America. 21 Perhaps the most extreme example of air power being deployed by a western power against non-Europeans in the interwar period was, however, the Italian–Abyssinian War of 1935–6. The common perception of the conflict is one of a modern, well-equipped, technological army demolishing a rag-tag band of tribesmen. But althoughthe Ethiopians were poorly equipped and at times badly led, they fought with greattenacity and resourcefulness against fearful odds and ultimately with little hope ofsuccess. The Italians used air power extensively throughout the campaign with considerable impact, whereas, paradoxically, tanks proved to be somewhat disappointing. Some 872 bombing missions were undertaken, including many which dropped poisongas bombs, although in direct attacks on the civilian population only limited effectivenesswas noted. Once again it was tactical ground support that brought greatest success. Predating the blitzkrieg  tactics of World War II, it was noted that air support was  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 117 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 106particularly effective in leading ground assaults, though because of the poor bomb load capacities of Italian aircraft attacks still relied heavily on artillery. The Ethiopians, although severely disadvantaged by their inability to combat air attack effectively, did start to begin to deal with the problem by concentrated use of rifles, machine-guns and even Oerlikon  cannon. The Italians lost 16 aircraft to ground fire, usually while on close-support tactical duties, emphasizing the lesson of World War I that such duties were decidedly dangerous.22 Generally, the campaign yet again indicated the vulnerability of ground forces to air attack if friendl