, something that clearly did not exist prior to 1950. T o prevent this impotence occurring again it was accepted that a standing ready force for use incrisis situations was necessary. It was not acceptable to wait for a war to break out before strategic forces could be expanded to meet any threat developing from the war. Therefore, in 1952 the USAF argued for the creation a strong strike force capableof delivering an early knockout blow to act as a deterrent and to offer the USA a viable offensive strategic policy. 21 By the time that Eisenhower became president in 1953, US defence policy was resting, albeit temporarily, on nuclear armed strategic air power while conventional forces, allowed to decline markedly since 1945, were rebuilt. The incoming administration rapidly reassessed the situation and moved strategic air power to the centre-stage even  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 218 --- AIR POWER AND THE POST -WAR WORLD 207more, on the grounds of the exorbitant costs of developing a whole new generation of ground and tactical forces. The British were also moving in this direction. In order to maintain a world role, they would have to rely on the supposed deterrent and threat of nuclear weapons even more than the Americans. For the relatively impoverishedBritons, who were unable to contemplate the massive expansion of their conventional forces, the nuclear option, even if it lay some way off, was crucial to sustaining superpower status, if only temporarily and with little basis in reality. 22 Eisenhower’s thinking was based on a number of assumptions. Primarily, the new president was concerned about the long-term economic stability of the USA, which was central to the viability of any defence strategy. Any new policy would have to be based on solidfiscal foundations, and clearly the aspiration of the Truman administration, as stated in the NATO Lisbon goals, of wanting to create new conventional forces to make the western world defensible without recourse to