N THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 138be extremely vulnerable to land based air attack as demonstrated during the Norway debacle of 1940, in the defence and evacuation of Crete in 1941 and off Malaya when the Prince of Wales  and Repulse  were sunk in December of the same year. The necessity of air cover for the RN in 1940 if it were called upon to break up a German invasionforce seems therefore even more vital. The scant carrier based air forces of the RN did play a sporadic role in the European theatre, crippling the Italian navy at Taranto, bringing about the destruction of the German battleship, Bismarck,  in 1941 and in offering air cover to convoys, although this became prohibitively expensive if deployed within range of enemy air forces. Ultimately, the role of maritime air power in the European war was, aside from the Atlantic campaign, largely peripheral to the outcome of the war. Nor did such air power in Europe keep pace with the advancements of the US and Imperial Japanese navies. This however, is not necessarily a severe criticism. It should be remembered thatstrategic constraints and requirements shaped the progress of air power and the need for advanced carrier fleets in Europe was small. The British, with limited resources, viewed Europe as a higher priority than the Far East, where it was hoped that theUSA would support British interests against the increasingly belligerent Japanese. Arguably the one area where the European based nations failed to appreciate the value of air power was in the trade war. For the British this was a fundamental failure.As an island state highly dependent of sea communications and trade links, the strategic need for air cover of such routes was imperative, and it was a need that had been demonstrated by the First World War. However, such a failing was repeated moreemphatically by the Japanese, and the Germans too, for the most part, did not truly recognize the potential of trade war, hence the small number of U-boats available on th