inci’s innovative and curious designs for a clockwork ornithopter a century or so later, the first practical steps in the direction of flight came in the eighteenth century. It had already been established a century before that man-powered flight would require some form of mechanical assistance as Giovanni Borelli and Robert Hooke had noted that human muscles alone were not sufficient to lift men into the air. Despite the fact that it was in Britain that the avidly read experiments of Henry Cavendish and Joseph Priestly into the properties of gases were conducted in the 1760s and 1770s, it was in France that hot air and hydrogen balloon developmentbegan. The balloon – the first means of flight It was Joseph and Etienne Montgolfier who stumbled on the fact that hot air risesand produced the first true flying device – a hot-air balloon. The first public flight famously carried a sheep, cockerel and duck in September 1783. The Montgolfiers immediately saw military potential and Joseph supposedly claimed that the hot-air balloon experiments might lead to an aerial assault on Gibraltar being possible. 4 The first hydrogen balloons were in operation soon after and by the end of 1783, for the first time in history, practical flight had been achieved. As early as November 1783 a British pamphlet entitled The air balloon: or a treatise on the aerostatic globe, lately invented by the celebrated Mons. Montgolfier of Paris  had been published. However, British attitudes to ballooning were dismissive and it was in France that the early pioneering work was undertaken.5  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 35 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 24The military application of such technology soon followed in the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars. On the outbreak of war in 1793 the Commission Scientifique  called for balloons to be delivered to the army for military use, and a formal “Aerostat Company” was established in 1794.6 Importantly, considering the future heavy dema