ars to prove its innocence. The reality wasthat the USAAF was following its late-war psychological knockout blow policy worked out back in 1942 and, in any case, in the prevailing poor European weather the USAAF was often less accurate in its bombing than the RAF which had beendeveloping radar assisted bombing for low/non-visibility operations since 1940/41. In many cases, the USAAF resorted to bombing what it euphemistically phrased “marshalling yards”, which in truth meant area bombing. 91 What the Americans did well was to distance themselves from the policy of area bombing in a way that Harris never even attempted. In many ways the Dresden raid has coloured the post-war view of the effectiveness of the bomber offensive. Y et, the impact of strategic bombing on the outcome of the war was immense, on three counts: first, the direct impact on the German economy caused by the physical damage of bombing; secondly, the massive redeployment ofresources by the Germans to counter the bombing raids; and thirdly, the imposed attrition on the Luftwaffe  caused by the bomber offensive, especially from the spring of 1944 onwards.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 176 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 165Table 6.5 – Allied bomb tonnage dropped on Europe, 1940–45 Source:  Overy, The air war,  p. 120. The area of the debate which has caused most controversy has been that of what the bombing actually did to the German economy and consequently what it contributed to the outcome of the war. Steven Garrett has offered the most recent damningindictment of the strategic bombing campaign, and the RAF’s area offensive in particular. 92 In essence, his criticism centres on the two points that German morale never came close to cracking under the weight of the bombing offensive, and more importantly that German war production increased dramatically from 1942 to 1944 in spite of the bombing offensive. Indeed, Garrett argues that bombing probably increased German industrial efficiency by fo