elin and heavy-bomber raids of World War I did cause a considerable public outcry, resulting inthe creation of the world’s first independent air force, the RAF . The real concerns of the British government centred on how much direct attack their society could sustain. Why should the mass of the population suffer to sustain a war fought for publicelites? During the 1914–18 conflict the true horror of war had been hidden away from the British public in France and Belgium, with the public image being carefully managed by the government. Consequently, the war, though greater than any before,was still essentially out-of-sight and out-of-mind. However, when the whole of society was confronted with death and destruction from the air, surely the “great lie” would be exposed and revolution would follow? The breakdown in law and order had beennoted by the government during 1917, when German air raids, although quite limited in scale, caused a good deal of social and moral panic. With the advent in the 1930s of the modern heavy-bomber, coupled with the potential use of poison gas, the fear ofair attack provoking the collapse of society was very real in British politics. Such was the concern that national strategy in the years leading up to the Second World War was for a time based upon the notion that other states were equally intimidated bythe threat of the bomber. British policy centred on air deterrence: by matching or surpassing levels of air power in potential enemy states – Germany – the status quo in Europe could be maintained. Unfortunately, the policy was seriously flawed becauseother powers were not as fearful of air attack as the British, although it was a cause of serious concern. 15 The British case was an extreme example of the fear of the bomber, but it is a clear indication of the level of air mindedness in interwar society.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 26 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 15Although not everyone shared Britain’s excessive concerns