lan was sold to the cabinet largely on the grounds of greatly reduced cost, and was a key factor in ensuring the survival of the independentRAF . The impact was considerable and in conjunction with political and diplomatic initiatives, control of Iraq was eventually re-established. Annual British expenditure in Iraq fell from £23.36 million in 1921/22 to £7.81 million in 1922/23, the first year ofair control. By 1927 the figure had shrunk still further to just £3.9 million. 15 The High Commissioner, Henry Dobbs, even commented in 1925 that “air control has been . . . brilliantly successful” and that policing of Iraq with ground troops alone would nothave been feasible. 16  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 115 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 104The RAF was also used in imperial policing and control roles in India, Aden, Africa, Transjordan and Palestine. In areas of open country and against widespread populations aircraft were of considerably greater value, but in regions such as Palestine from 1920 onwards, air power proved less successful. Against urban rebellions, unlessthe British forces were willing to indulge in repeated bombings of civilians in towns and cities, the aeroplane was of little direct military value. Air power was also used in an imperial prestige role in the interwar era, with long- range cruises down the Nile and across Africa being undertaken, in addition to flying boat visits to Australia, Singapore and Hong Kong. Again these duties were largely political, aimed at demonstrating the strength and determination of the British topolice and support the empire. Moreover, the cost of such operations was again much lower than using naval cruisers, and arguably the impact on populations unused to flying machines was more impressive. 17 The impact of these imperial policing and control duties on British air power was probably mixed. While the substitution policy ensured the survival of the RAF during a difficult period, it contributed little t