T ed Sherman, with larger self-contained multi-carrier forces. The doctrine for the creation and use of such a force was developed under the tutelage of Admiral John T owers following his arrival in the Pacific as Commander, Air Force Pacific Fleet in October 1942. Nimitz was initiallycool to T owers but was won over by the work done by the new appointment and his staff in 1942–3, especially in helping to frame “PAC 10”, the doctrine which was to form the foundation of later US Naval success 51 By early 1944, Admiral T owers had been appointed Deputy Commander-in-Chief, Pacific Fleet and Task Force 58 had been created comprising all the various carrier divisions under the command of Marc Mitscher, a noted air admiral. It was Task Force 58, either under the command of theFifth Fleet’s Admiral Raymond Spruance or the Third Fleet’s Admiral William “Bull”  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 202 --- THE WAR IN THE FAR EAST, 1937–45 191Halsey (when it became Task Force 38) which was to destroy Japanese naval aviation in 1944. Clearly by 1944, the US Navy was an air navy in the true sense of the term. Air power dominated operations in the Pacific and in the war against Japan. The Americans had placed the aeroplane at the heart of their strategy for the prosecution of the war. With the Marianas captured, prior to the Battle of the Philippine Sea in June 1944, the second role of air power in the Far Eastern war was about to be significantly stepped up: the so-called torching of Japan. The “torching” of Japan During the final year of the Second World War, the USAAF launched what could be regarded as the campaign which epitomized total air war more than any other, the strategic bombing offensive against Japan. In the space of nine months the US 20th Air Force, and principally XXI Bomber Command, burned out dozens of Japanese cities in a series of ferocious and arguably barbaric firebombing raids. Against little or no opposition, the Americans razed city after city to the gro