ause they still expected the war to be decided by a surface engagement, and also because their own carrier force was, after 1942, inadequate in terms of training and numbers. The whole basis of Japan’s pre-war“defensive” strategy relied on the combined use of land and carrier based air forces todeplete an advancing US fleet as it approached Japanese-held waters. However, thewar demonstrated that this strategy was untenable. Once this started to become apparentit was too late for Japan to adjust. Reliance on superior fighting capability and the dominance of “decisive battle” mentality created a Japanese military structure akin to an inverted pyramid, with theupper half representing the military fighting capability, and the lower half the supportsfor the continuing effort. Once the front-line force had been reduced by a series ofattritional battles, the weak and flimsy supports for the Japanese war machine wereunable to provide adequate replacements. Moreover, once the USAAF began the systematic strategic bombardment of Japan in 1944 the whole basis of the Japanese war effort crumbled. The inability of Japanese air power, either land or carrier based,to prevent this was the fundamental reason for Japan’s defeat. Industry, mobilization and technology It is clear that Japanese air power declined markedly relative to Allied air strength asthe Second World War progressed and a key factor in this demise was the failure of the Japanese economy to meet the demands made of it by the war. Mirroring the failure  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 193 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 182of German aircraft production, Japan’s aero-industry suffered from a lack of central direction until it was too late, poor levels of state and private mobilization and shortagesbrought about by blockade and bombing. Moreover, the Japanese military forces imposed themselves forcefully on the means of production, distorting and hindering the process still further. In addition, and unlike the