d act as the scouts and reconnaissance units of the navy, and that ultimately it would be the big guns of the battleships which would decide the outcome of a battle. However, the weight of evidence began to accrueagainst this more conservative view of carrier warfare. Increasingly, an offensive andindependent carrier doctrine was developed. In 1932, Admiral Yarnell led the fastcarriers on a successful sneak air raid of Pearl Harbor, upstaging the Japanese by nineyears. Subsequently he argued for the use of six to eight fast carriers in a war against the Japanese. 66 Despite this, on the eve of war, US naval air doctrine, advanced as it was, was still to a large extent tied to supporting the battleship line. Although independent carrierdoctrine had been developed, the struggle for supremacy within the US Navy hadnot been decisively won – it was to take the Pearl Harbor raid to achieve that.Nevertheless, the overall importance of air power to the defence of US possessions and interests in the Pacific and Asia had been accepted and was latterly considered the key to the defence of the Philippines. Maritime air power in Japan developed along similar lines to the US Navy, although initially for different strategic requirements. Japan had identified the USA by the early 1920s as being the most likely opponent in a future war over Japanese expansionist  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 106 --- THE DEVELOPMENT OF AIR POWER DOCTRINE AND THEORY 95ambitions in Asia. This was to become even clearer as the 1930s went on when the European imperial powers confronted each other once again. While the Japanese army struggled to assert itself against China, and worried over the potential actions ofthe Soviet Union, the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) concentrated on how best to dealwith a US threat to further Japanese activity in southeast Asia. The Japanese had had their own carrier fleet founded on the Akagi  and Kaga of later World War II fame since the late 1920s, but when more e