otion that the North Vietnamese were “bombed” back to the negotiating table is something of a myth. They were looking totalk anyway, aware as they were of the Americans’ weakening resolve. Even if areabombing could have been deployed effectively back in 1965, the political ramificationsand international condemnation would have been significant, again underlining the limited conditions in which air power could be properly used. The idea that the USA would have been justified in “carpet bombing” cities in support of a minor policingand support operation in 1965 is simply not tenable, in political and perhaps moralterms. Vietnam proved that air power was an excellent weapon of major war, but oflimited use in supporting low-intensity conflicts restricted by political considerations. 45 Afghanistan demonstrated again that without a clear long term goal and the freedom to achieve it, even superpower forces could come to grief. Air operations in Afghanistan centred on general air support and limited close support firepower sorties. Despite thehostile terrain and the general indecision of the campaign from a political perspective,the VVS (Soviet Air Force) carried out their tasks with low loss rates until the adventof US Stinger and British Blowpipe SAMs in the mid-1980s. With such weaponsavailable, the Mujahedin  were able to increase loss rates on Soviet air forces, dramatically curtailing the effectiveness of airborne operations, and thus overall Soviet effectiveness as their tactics were heavily reliant on air support. As in Vietnam, although outrightmilitary victory was never an option, the use of an attritional persisting strategy servedthe Mujahedin  well. Air power was incapable of delivering much more to the Soviets than it did in the war. Indeed, whereas the Americans were eventually able to deployair power to questionable strategic effect in 1972, the USSR did not have that option owing to the nature of the campaign. Air power was able to deliver a stalemate in A