to win. Paradoxically, the most effective exponents of air war in the first stages of World War II were the Axis powers themselves, but they sought to use it, along with other new arms, as a way of evading the kind oftotal war that the Great War had portended. In reality, what they were perhaps demonstrating so vividly was that air power was not sufficient to avoid industrial wars, and indeed was actually a prime accelerating factor in the deepening and widening oftotal war.  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 33 --- 22Chapter T wo The birth of air power It is often assumed that the beginnings of air power rest with the first controlled, powered flight of the Wright brothers in the Kill Devil Hills, near Kitty Hawk, Carolinain December 1903. While the achievement of the Wrights in propelling the first trueaircraft into the air was remarkable, especially considering their background and theirlack of formal scientific and academic training, in reality aviation had been around for quite some time in a variety of guises. Additionally, the notion that air power would or could be decisive in war situations, on a level far surpassing all other forms of conflict,had also taken root well before Orville Wright guided the “flyer” into the air for itsinaugural 120-foot, 12-second flight. 1 Indeed, the singular lack of impact of the Wrights’ breakthrough, though partly of their own doing, was symptomatic of the already long standing, world wide fascination with flight, of which the events at the Kill Devil Hills formed only a part. It was not until the Wrights went public with their “flyers” in 1908that the significance of their contribution became clear. The conquest of the skies had been a preoccupation of human civilization for centuries and stories abound of the earliest attempts at flight. The famous legend ofDaedalus and Icarus is told in many languages and many early cultures revered deities who were imagined to have mastered flight. Strangely, the Graeco-Roman cultures