n exhausting attritional war the failure of German industrial and economic planning and management prior to 1941 became all too apparent. Although the Luftwaffe  continued  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 145 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 134to play a part on the Eastern Front, by the time of Kursk in 1943 the VVS had made good the technological, training and doctrinal shortcomings that had contributed greatly to its near collapse in 1941. Additionally, the Soviet aero-industries were swamping the Luftwaffe  with vast numbers of new aircraft. At Kursk, the Luftwaffe  mustered some 1,500 aircraft, while the VVS could deploy close on double that number.26 A clear indication of the crisis the Luftwaffe  was facing had already emerged in 1942 when training programmes were cut short to allow new aircrew to get to the front line faster. The idea was for them to finish their training at the front line. However, ill- prepared as they were, active Luftwaffe  units shielded raw airmen from dangerous operations to allow them to settle in. Unfortunately, this had the effect of increasing attritional rates on experienced pilots and crew, exacerbating the underlying problem. Additionally, new aircrew suffered greater accident rates as a result of their inadequate training. Clearly, the technical ability of the Luftwaffe,  which their enemies sought to copy, slowly declined as the war went on, although perversely doctrine reached peak effectiveness in 1943.27 In assessing the impact of the Luftwaffe  on conduct of the blitzkrieg  campaigns it is clear that the German air forces were technically and doctrinally superior to the enemy air forces confronted, arguably with the exception of the RAF’s air defence system. The rearmament of the Luftwaffe  in the wake of the technological advances of the late 1930s had handed Goering’s force a considerable advantage over the opposingair forces. Moreover, the Luftwaffe ’s flexible approach to war, almost an anti-doctrine, allowe