umns.  During the battle, the Entreprenant was enterprising indeed, remaining aloft for more than nine hours, and once again lifting the intrepid Morlot to view the battle, this time ascending as high as 1,300 feet, far higher above the ground than any other general had ever been. Observations were dropped in message packets from the balloon and immediately conveyed to Jourdan at his field head- quarters. In the inevitable post-mortem on the efficacy of these dis- patches, there were only positive comments. The balloon observa- tions were invaluable, despite the difficulties inherent in transport- ing inflated balloons from point to point. One of the most authori- tative members of the National Constituent Assembly, Deputy Joseph Lakanal, was an expert in the well-developed system of sem- aphore-telegraphs used for communication. He commented that sending an army into battle without a balloon to observe was like fighting a duel blindfolded. Jourdan, however, perhaps conscious of his earlier resistance to the idea of balloons, did not comment at all on its effect in his report. And, in a manner remarkable for any flyer, Coutelle was modest to the point of self-abnegation in his report. In his own words, “I will not claim as do those who praise or blame with exaggeration everything that is new, that the balloon won the battle of Fleurus. On this memorable day, every corps did its full duty. What I can say is, that well served by my glass [telescope, not brandy], despite the oscillation and movement caused by the wind, I was able to distinguish clearly the corps of infantry and cay- alry, the parks of artillery, their movements, and in general the massed troops.”  In his place, it would have been the work of a moment for Guilio Douhet or Billy Mitchell to have said: “Without the Entreprenant, the battle of Fleurus would have been irredeemably lost. With it, the enemy had no chance for victory.” A neutral observer, British Army    Appendix 397  Major General John Money,