h usage will be applied to Japanese names here.) Yamamoto was politically much more influential than Inoue, and was able to see to it that Japan had a powerful carrier force.  Japan was acutely aware of its lack of raw materials and perceived that first the United States, and then Great Britain, were the great- est threats to its security. This threat materialized fully in July 1941 when, after Japan had seized French Indo-China, the United States embargoed the sale of high-octane gasoline to the Japanese, ordered that petroleum sales be kept to normal levels, and froze Japanese assets. War became inevitable.  The Third Factor, the level of aviation technology, was to the sur- prise of all, in Japan’s favor. After having followed its traditional process of calling on foreign firms for industrial assistance, Japan had created an able indigenous aircraft industry, and was producing first- rate aircraft for both the Army and the Navy. These aircraft were care- fully tailored to their required missions, and while they did not meet current European standards for armor, self-sealing tanks, and fire- power, they were very well suited for the tasks expected of them.  Where Japan suffered most, however, was in the paucity of people who were influential in the command structure of the services, and who were air minded. Only a few men stand out as outspoken air- power advocates, including Inoue and Yamamoto and also Admirals Jisaboro Ozawa, Takijiro Onishi, and a latecomer, Matome Ugaki.  Growth of Air-Power Theory 167  Ozawa believed that carriers should not be spread about in sepa- rate fleets, but, instead, should be concentrated to maximize their offensive power.* With a courage rare in the Japanese naval bureau- cracy, Ozawa went over Yamamoto’s head in promoting his idea with the Navy minister himself. Yet, Yamamoto, with typical grace, agreed to Ozawa’s ideas, and saw to it that the Japanese naval air service was reorganized into air fleets with corresponding land-based