ers were built, but strategic bombing did not loom large in Soviet strategy until the advent of the Cold War.  The United States  Not unlike an eager puppy with a new toy, the United States plunged into World War I aeronautics with enthusiasm, money, and willing vendors—but not much else. (The notable exception to this situation had been the creation in March 1915 of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA), an organization which would have profound influence not only on the United States, but also international aviation, and which would lead ultimately in 1968 to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.)  In spite of the almost zero base from which it started, however, the United States was represented by the Lafayette Escadrille begin- ning in May 1916. The Escadrille (and later the expanded Lafayette  Fighters and Bombers 97  Flying Corps, along with volunteers in the RAF) provided the foun- dation for the first U.S. pursuit squadrons, with the 103rd Pursuit Squadron becoming operational on February 18, 1918. The 96th Bombardment Squadron arrived at the front by June 1918, operat- ing well-worn Breguet XIVs. On September 14, just after the Battle of St. Mihiel commenced, the 96th was incorporated into the First Day Bombardment Group, along with the 11th and 20th Bombardment Squadrons, flying the British-designed but American-built de Havilland D.H. 4s.  Given its later arrival upon the scene, it is somewhat surprising that the most important demonstration of air power during World War I was provided by the United States at the Battle of St. Mihiel. The United States was admittedly using borrowed aircraft designs and even borrowed squadrons of foreign aircraft, but the concept was uniquely American in terms of scale and execution. It would be the pattern for the future.  The architect of the St. Mihiel aerial offensive was Colonel Billy Mitchell, who assembled the largest air force ever committed to bat- tle and drew up plans for its employ