e all the capitals of the ancient states of central and eastern Europe, Warsaw, Berlin, Prague, Vienna, Budapest, Belgrade, Bucharest and Sofia, all those famous cities and the popu- lations around them lie in what I might call the Soviet sphere and all are subject, in one form or another, not only to Soviet influence, but to a very high and increasing measure of control from Moscow. “!  The term “Iron Curtain” caught on immediately. In later years the phrase’s origin was pursued relentlessly, being first attributed to an arti- cle in the February 23, 1945, issue of Das Reich by German Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels, in which he warned that an “iron curtain would descend immediately” upon the territory the Soviet Union then occupied if the German people failed in their attempts to repel the invaders. There were earlier examples of the phrase as well, but Churchill’s meaning was clear: the Soviet Union had complete control of the eastern frontiers of its buffer zone, and no one could know or alter events that occurred behind those frontiers. There was also the implicit threat that the Soviet Union would inevitably seek to expand its Iron Curtain westward, to the English Channel and beyond.  The Western Allies made attempts to strengthen their own position, including the February 12, 1947, articulation of the Truman Doctrine, which offered aid to countries threatened by Communism. This action was followed on June 5 by the announcement of the European Recovery Program. Although Truman could in all modesty have lent his own name to the plan, he was politically sawwy enough to let it be known as the Marshall Plan, after his universally popular Secretary of State, George C. Marshall. The Soviet Union was offered participation in the Marshall Plan, but declined and forbade its client states to join in. Defensively, preliminary steps were taken to form what eventually became the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).  Curiously, considering the massive importance t