warded Goering’s early efforts to build an air force by giving him control of the German economy in the first Four Year Plan. The Luftwaffe benefited because Goering had less time for it, and his sec- ond-in-command, Milch, was able to rationalize its expansion effort.  The third was perhaps the least likely of the lot, Minister of Propaganda Joseph Goebbels. Resentful of his physical handicap, a lame foot, Goebbels compensated for it with a brilliant, sardonic mind. Far more intelligent than almost all of his Nazi compatriots, he was totally dedicated to the casting couch technique of making films. Goebbels had no experience with aviation or with warfare, but was a master propagandist who saw in the Luftwaffe a banner that could be waved by the German media, the content of which was closely controlled.  As previously noted, Hitler had appreciated aviation in his elec- tion campaigns and had understood the value in the “risk fleet” of bombers proposed by Dr. Knauss as an interim step toward rearm- ing Germany. More important, he understood the psychology of the French and British leaders, and knew of their fear of the bombers that “always got through.” His decision, taken against the advice of his generals, to reoccupy the Rhineland on March 7, 1936, was a turning point. Hitler would later say, “The forty-eight hours after the    172 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  march into the Rhineland were the most nerve-racking of my life. If the French had then marched into the Rhineland, we would have had to withdraw with our tails between our legs, for the military resources at our disposal would have been wholly inadequate for even a moderate resistance.”  “Wholly inadequate” did not begin to describe the state of the Luftwaffe at the time, for it was able to put up only three fighter units, all equipped with obsolete Arado Ar 65, Ar 68, and Heinkel He 51 biplanes. Of these, only one unit was fitted with machine guns, and these had not been bore-sighted for use. T