923) have been raised as a standard of comparison. In essence, Corbett concurred with Mahan’s views on these points:  —Command of the sea is vital.  —Weaker powers must depend upon commerce raiding.  —Lines of communication are vital.  Corbett disagreed with Mahan on the following points:  —While the command of the sea is vital, the sea is not normally com- manded, and it is often sufficient to have just the control of the seas.  —Joint operations of land and sea forces are essential to success.  Corbett imputed more importance to advances in technology than did Mahan, feeling that they could dictate not only tactics but also strategy. And according to Corbett, there were cases where the navy might have more important tasks than the defeat of the enemy’s main fleet, as important as that was.  To determine the influence of the ideas of air-power theorists on the development and employment of air power, we can state that there is an analogous set of factors that molds air-power theory and determines its success or failure. For later identification, let us call these the Five Factors that measure the effect of air-power theory. These Five Factors operated to the mid-1950s, when they were suc- ceeded by first the concept of massive retaliation as enunciated by President Dwight D. Eisenhower, and subsequently by the concept of mutually assured destruction (MAD). This concept assumed that both the Soviet Union and the United States had the capability to accept a first strike and still be able to inflict unacceptable damage in a retaliatory strike. As insane as this sounds on the face of it, the theory worked for all of the Cold War, and it is working still. The Five    126 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Factors include:  1. the size of the military budget, and the air force’s relative share of that budget;  2. each nation’s contemporary political perception of the major threat to its security;  3. the level of aviation technology, expressed often in the early ye