ing the best possible chance to cut them off. (It was an eerie forecast of Allied efforts in May 1940.) The French had mobilized almost four million men in sixteen days formed into the five French armies in the line. There were thirty-one units, each of six aircraft, and these were appor- tioned evenly among the five armies, an unfortunate dispersion of forces that would foreshadow problems for the French in World War II when they made the same faulty dispositions with both planes and tanks.  Air Power in World War I 59  On September 2, none other than Corporal Louis Breguet—scion of the famous watch-making family, engineer, and a prominent air- craft manufacturer—flew a prototype Breguet 13 aircraft on a recon- naissance mission. (Photos of the spindly Breguet 13 reveal that one would have to be a brave man to attempt to fly it at all.) He too dis- covered the change in movement of von Kluck’s forces and relayed this news directly to General Joseph Gallieni, the military governor of Paris. Breguet’s report was reinforced by similar information from Lieutenants Prot and Hugel. Gallieni urged the French Commander in Chief, Marshal Joseph Joffre, to join General French in making a stand on the Marne. Gallieni then made the famous (if over-bally- hooed) decision to use Parisian taxicabs to carry troops to the front, reinforcing the newly created French Sixth Army.  As a result of the Battle of the Marne, Paris was saved, and the war was shifted from the swift thrust of the Schlieffen plan to the bloody trench warfare that would scar Europe for the next four years. All German hopes of a quick victory over France disappeared, and it was saddled with its longtime nightmare, a war on two fronts. Air power thus influenced the gigantic conflict that ensued and which would, in turn, influence the shape and substance of air power for all time.  An Air-Power Offset  The results of the early Allied exercise of air power in the form of telling reconnaissance might have had an eve