re excellent for an engineer, Nicolas Lhomond; a scientist, Nicolas Conte; and a chemist, Jean Marie-Joseph Coutelle; were given the difficult task of preparing the hydrogen-generating apparatus. The job, difficult enough by con- ventional means, was rendered almost impossible by the stipulation that sulphuric acid not be used, for the limited quantities available of that commodity were already allotted to other military needs.  The team responded well, using the alternate method of water decomposition to create the hydrogen. In this process, the hydro- gen was isolated from the water by passing steam continuously over heated iron. This was safer and less expensive, but more time con- suming, and it served its purpose well. As a result of the team’s suc- cess, the Committee for Public Safety passed an act on April 2, 1794, authorizing what became the 1ére Compagnie d’Aérostiers, the very first organized air unit in history, and the one from which every air force, all over the world, descended. Somehow, amid the mixture of a confused and bloody revolution and bitter wars, the French man- aged to form this first air unit correctly and with style.  The engineers were a highly regarded element of the French Army, and the Aérostiers were manned and equipped accordingly. The chemist, Coutelle, was made the company captain, and he was assisted by the scientist Lhomond as his lieutenant and by a sergeant major—always the key person in a military unit. There were two cor- porals and twenty privates, one of whom was Lhomond’s son. These were not just ordinary recruits, for the personnel were selected for their knowledge of the arts and sciences. Coutelle made the selec- tions, and he sought to gain a group with the talent to sketch (for purposes of observation), and to be able to build equipment, including hydrogen generators.  Despite the technical nature of their task, the Aérostiers were sol- diers first and foremost, and were given the same training as regu- lar troops. A