esidence, Yamamoto, now the Commander in Chief of the Combined Fleet and the First Fleet, was asked what the  The Growth of Air Power, 1941-43 225  Navy’s prospects were in the event of a war with America. Yamamoto replied, “If we are ordered to do it, then I can guarantee to put up a tough fight for the first six months, but I have absolutely no con- fidence as to what would happen if it went on for two or three years. It is too late to do anything about the Tripartite Pact [the alliance of Japan, Germany, and Italy] now but I hope at least that you’ll make every effort to avoid war with America.”* (He made similar remarks on other occasions, including one statement in which he promised to “run wild” for six months.)  It was at this point in his career that Yamamoto made the first and most crucial of the several mistakes he would make before his death in 1943. He bitterly opposed a war against the United States because he knew from his deep understanding of the American manufac- turing potential that Japan could not possibly win. Unfortunately, the degree of his opposition did not extend to resigning his posi- tion in protest. Yamamoto was held in very high esteem, and the res- ignation of the Commander in Chief of the Japanese Navy would have created a political firestorm that might have forced the Japanese government to reconsider its options.  Instead of resigning, he acquiesced, insisting on the execution of the strike on Pearl Harbor that he had called upon his staff to plan. It was an act that would stir and unite the people of the United States in a way that almost nothing else could have done, as Yamamoto must have known.  It was Japan’s intent to build a defensive ring that encompassed the natural resources it needed to survive, and which would theo- retically be impossible to assail. At the height of the Japanese expan- sion in mid-1942, this ring ran on a line from Manchuria through coastal China to Burma’s frontier, then south along a perimeter that inc