1939, and the Soviet pilots were withdrawn in 1940, although some advisors remained to conduct training. The Soviets continued to deliver air- craft through April 1941, by which time they had supplied 1,250 air- craft of all sorts, including 347 I-15s and I-15bis and 216 I-16s.""  The Soviet Union would provide the only meaningful aerial resis- tance to the Japanese until the American Volunteer Group com- manded by Claire L. Chennault went into action in December 1941. The standard of training of Chinese pilots in all-Chinese units was so low that the Japanese shot them out of the sky."  The Japanese made efficient military use of air power, backing up the advances of their ground forces, engaging in extensive reconnais- sance efforts, and enhancing their already vast superiority in artillery with spotting flights. They also used air power in a particularly brutal    Air Power and Its Influence Between the Wars 181  manner, bombing defenseless cities, apparently indifferent to the hos- tile reaction this practice provoked throughout the world.  This indifference to public reaction reached a critical height with the sinking of the USS Panay on December 12, 1937. The Panay was a 450-ton shallow-draft gunboat and was carrying American civil- ians, including members of the diplomatic staff, up the Yangtze river to escape the Japanese shelling of Nanking (Nanjing). Twenty- four Japanese Naval aircraft—fifteen bombers and nine fighters— bombed and strafed the Panay, dropping bombs of up to five hun- dred pounds, despite the fact that the American flag was clearly dis- played. The attack began at 1:27 p.M. and ended at 2:25. The Panay sank at 3:54, with three passengers dead and twelve injured. Three small American oil company vessels were also sunk, and another sixty-two men injured.  Despite a United States naval court of inquiry that concluded that the attack was deliberate, Japan insisted that it was an accident, and offered an apology and an indemnity of $2,214,007.36