aps on the weight of bomb loads and the munitions to be used. The fact that they were twelve thousand miles from the scene of the action, and that their orders had to pass through numerous headquarters before being realized, did not discomfort them. To the troops in the field, who knew the enemy positions intimately and who saw how often the missions were useless, the process appeared insane.  One set of statistics will reveal exactly how skewed the thinking in Washington was. During the war in Southeast Asia, the United States dropped eight million tons of bombs, twice the tonnage dropped by all the warring powers during World War II. Because of    326 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  McNamara’s insistence that it was a war against insurgents, more than 90 percent of this figure was dropped on the country of America’s ally, South Vietnam, while only 10 percent was dropped on the country of America’s enemy, North Vietnam.  This abysmal computation, 7.2 million tons of bombs on friendly South Vietnam and 1.8 million tons on enemy North Vietnam, is an absolute indication of the political madness with which the war was conducted.  In addition to the misdirected bomb tonnage, all traditional con- cepts of the employment of mass, surprise, and the selection of appropriate objectives were tossed aside in an orgy of too-clever “signal sending.” For years there prevailed within Washington the hope that sending signals such as the bombing halts would result in the North Vietnamese becoming more tractable. The North Vietnamese did not interpret the signals as an avenue to compro- mise; instead they saw them as what they were, signs of weakness, showing that will and purpose were lacking in United States top leadership. Every such signal, instead of leading to some under- standing, led to stiffened resistance by the North Vietnamese.  McNamara and his associates in government thus succeeded in forfeiting all the enormous advantages that American air power possessed, in