phere also saw the application of air power. In 1911, a Native-American pilot, Hector Worden, a Cherokee Indian, was commissioned a captain in the Mexican Army to fly reconnais- sance and bombing missions in Blériot XIs against revolutionaries. The following year, the world’s first dogfight took place in Mexican skies when two mercenary airmen, Dean Ivan Lamb, flying a Curtiss pusher, engaged Phil Rader in a Christofferson biplane. The men exchanged pistol shots, without doing serious damage, but setting a pattern that would become all too familiar during World War I.  The General Situation in Europe  Each of the major European powers found itself in similar situations,  Fledgling Wings 41  in respect to air power. On the one hand, national governments and the top military leaders did not wish to expend large sums on a new and as yet unproven weapon. The existing competitive demand for battleships, artillery, horses, and so on by their respective arms—and their civil and industrial backers—already strained defense budgets. On the other hand, the growing evidence of the usefulness of avia- tion, and the growing influence of aviation proponents, including the slowly emerging aviation industry, called for appropriations at some level.  The division in opinion was easier to handle within the military than within the government. The relatively few pro-aviation officers were often regarded as eccentrics who had no idea about career pro- gression. To many professional military officers it was self-evident that only someone who had given up all hope of promotion, or who had a death wish, would sacrifice a comfortable assignment in a crack cavalry or artillery unit for the unknown and extremely haz- ardous world of aviation. It was more difficult at the political level, for even in the early days, the promise of a large aviation industry was attractive for the very reason that it is today—profits, jobs, and the assignment of contracts to specific areas of the country.  Yet t