t, the employment of air power on a vastly greater scale would have to be considered as hay- ing limited success during President Johnson’s tenure, because it failed to achieve Johnson’s objective of stopping North Vietnamese efforts to subvert South Vietnam. During the Nixon presidency, air power was used as a lever to achieve his objective of permitting the United States to disengage formally from the war, and therefore should also be considered a success.  The difficulty with this approach is that it does not really meas- ure the limits of air power, but measures instead the limits of the politicians who controlled its use. When politicians are too unknowledgeable about the use of air power, or are too timorous to    334 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  employ air power to its full capability, it is unreasonable to say that it was the limitations of air power that precluded success. To repeat the obvious, the unsatisfactory results of the Vietnam War do not reflect the limitations of air power but do reflect the limitations of the politicians employing it for most of the war.  This assessment does not imply that air power is limitless in its power to achieve military results. Air power has to be properly applied by professional practitioners in circumstances in which they judge that it can prevail. The preceding paragraph does imply that in the Vietnam War, air power, properly applied, could have won that conflict for the United States and South Vietnam. To validate this point of view, it is necessary to review the effects of air power as applied to Linebacker and Linebacker II operations.  Air Power Unleashed: The Linebacker Operations  The most famous supply route in history, the Ho Chi Minh Trail, consisted of many supply lines that ranged from a foot track to paved roads, and included river passages. These lines led from ports in North Vietnam to a thousand distribution points in South Vietnam. There were three principal routes: The first trail ferrie