y.)  The sheer inequity of the contest—the mighty Soviet Union against tiny Finland—aroused public indignation in France and Britain. The two governments were pressured to intervene, and Winston Churchill, in one of his less-forward-thinking moments, sug- gested that diplomatic relations be broken off with the Soviet Union and that the oil fields in Baku be bombed. In France, where aircraft were instructed not to provoke German reaction by raids on German cities, plans were made to join in bombing the oil fields. Had the oil fields been bombed, air power might have had its greatest influence to date, with the result that Britain and France would have been at war simultaneously with Germany and the Soviet Union.  Norway and Sweden, hoping to preserve their neutrality and their profitable commerce with Germany at all costs, refused a March 2, 1940, British request to allow troops to be sent through to aid Finland. Fortunately for all concerned but the Finns, a revital- ized Soviet Army resumed the offensive in February and over- whelmed Finland, which had to sue for peace on March 12, 1940.  Churchill had wanted to mine Norwegian waters from the start of the war because of the vast amount of German shipping traffic car- rying iron ore and other materials. The Supreme Allied War Council ordered the mining to take place. It began on April 8, four days after Churchill had been given overall defense responsibilities for Great Britain. He now advocated the seizure of Norway, and hasty preparations were made to put together a combined British, French, and Polish invasion force.  All during this period Grand Admiral Erich Raeder urged Hitler to occupy Norway to safeguard German merchant marine traffic and to establish U-boat bases. Hitler was predisposed to do so, for he had been enraged by Great Britain’s violation of Norwegian neutrality on February 16, 1940, when it seized the German supply ship Altmark and freed naval prisoners of war taken by the Graf Spee on its ill-fa