rance flirted again with balloons on several occasions, some- times frivolously, as with Lhomond’s 1808 proposal to send a fleet of a hundred balloons to England. Each of them was to be a hundred meters in diameter and carry a thousand men, horses, cannon, fuel, and fodder. Word of his plan quickly became known, and there were numerous cartoons depicting the event. Fortunately, given the prevailing winds, Napoleon declined to undertake the operation without a full-scale test, which was never made. If the test had gone ahead, France might inadvertently have invaded Switzerland.  The military balloon was briefly revived during the reign of Napoleon III, and used during the Italian campaign against Austria. Difficulties with supplying hydrogen in the field meant that many of the balloons were the less satisfactory hot-air type. The French reports of the campaign failed to mention the balloon, effectively condemning it.  During the Franco-Prussian War of 1870, the French used the balloon again, not as a weapon of war but as a communications vehicle. Sixty-six balloons were launched during the siege, carrying  Appendix 401  passengers, messages of state, personal letters, and four hundred hom- ing pigeons out of Paris. The homing pigeons returned with micro- filmed letters and documents. The effort was so great that a training school for balloonists had to be started to fill the need for pilots. Before that surprisingly successful exercise, the balloon was used in tentative fashion by Denmark in 1809, to drop propaganda leaflets over Sweden. The Austrians made a more serious use of it in the siege of Venice in 1849. Daniele Manin had led a revolt by his fellow Venetians against the Austrians in 1848 to create the Venetian republic. A protracted war followed, featuring extraordi- nary infighting and continual defeats of Italian forces by the Austrians, with the result that Venice came under siege in May 1849. During the course of that siege no less than 60,000 shells fell