st semi-rigid air- craft; Thomas Baldwin, who followed Santos-Dumont’s design lead; and Walter Wellman, whose adventures in the large dirigible America were thrilling but never quite successful.  In marked contrast, Count von Zeppelin never contemplated using his dirigibles as a personal vehicle or for adventurous stunts. He intended them from the start to be used commercially for prof- it and militarily as a weapon.  Fledgling Wings 25  The first Zeppelin was far grander than any previous dirigible, for it was 416 feet long and carried 399,000 cubic feet of hydrogen. The hydrogen did not fill the envelope of the Lujtschiff Zeppelin (Airship Zeppelin) LZ-1, as he called it, but instead was retained in seven- teen gas bags within the aluminum, fabric-covered framework. Two sixteen-horsepower Daimler internal combustion engines drove four propellers. Horizontal control was provided by rudders, while vertical control was provided by a sliding weight.  First flown on July 2, 1900, the LZ-1 had a top speed of about sev- enteen miles per hour. Unfortunately, the LZ-1 encountered diffi- culties on all of its three flights, and no one offered to purchase it. The Zeppelin firm was out of funds, and the LZ-1 was broken up and sold for scrap.  Zeppelin persevered, and by 1905, a second aircraft, the LZ-2, was ready, only to be damaged when it was launched. Repaired, it flew again on January 17, 1906, crashing in a violent storm. With gov- ernment backing, Zeppelin created the LZ-3, which met with some initial success, and attracted widespread popular backing.  The Count and his company were learning with each new Zeppelin, and by LZ-4 they had created a 446-foot-long airship with 530,000 cubic feet of gas, and capable of lifting more than 10,000 pounds of crew, passengers, fuel, and cargo. This was, at last, a prac- tical airship, and Germany began to become very partial to Zeppelins, so much so that when a storm wrecked LZ-4, there was a spontaneous outpouring of sympathy and