could, by increasing its flak installations and building up its fighter force at the expense of other fronts. In January 1943, the Luftwaffe had 635 single-engine and 410 twin-engine fighters, a total of 1,045, for the defense of the Reich, which left it with 395 single-engine and 50 twin-engine fight- ers on the Eastern Front—a pathetically small number given the enormous size of the front and the rising strength of the Soviet Air Force. By January 1944, the Luftwaffe had 870 single-engine and 780 twin-engine fighters (a total of 1,650) in the defense of the Reich,    True Air Superiority, Then Absolute Air Supremacy, 1944-45 265  while strength on the Eastern Front had declined to 425 fighters, of which only 345 were single engine.”  Germany’s fighter aircraft production was rising at a rate even faster than Allied estimates. The USAAF decided that in addition to attacking the aircraft industry, the Luftwaffe also had to be worn down by attrition to reduce the so-called “production-wastage dif- ferential.” In plainer words, the objective was to shoot down more German planes than could be built to replace them.  The weather began to clear over Germany on February 19, and Operation Argument was put into play, with Bomber Command, Eighth Air Force, and Fifteenth Air Force joining in. One of the pri- mary objects of the attacks was to get the German Air Force into the air and destroy it, with the bombers serving as bait.  The American long-range fighters adopted new tactics, reaching out beyond the bomber stream to attack German units as they were forming up, then dropping down to some of the most hazardous duty in the war, strafing enemy air bases that were hotly defended by many antiaircraft guns.  Aptly called “Big Week,” the battle went on for seven days, with the Luftwaffe bravely rising each day to meet new defeats. By February 25, the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces had flown more than 3,800 sorties and dropped almost 10,000 tons of bombs. The loss rate was hig