hose with which it would soon be at war. Germany was a poor second, with a capability to produce a limited number of good, if heavy, Daimler in-line, water-cooled engines. England, Italy, and Russia relied on France for engines, although all three countries were trying hard to establish an indigenous engine industry.  The aviation engine industry is in fact a metaphor for the early effects of air power on history, for the demands of that industry are many. The entire culture and economy of a country has to bend to accommodate the creation of an engine industry, for it requires a new kind of engineer, new kinds of plants, new standards of machine tools, and new manufacturing, inspection, and testing methods. It also calls forth new materials, new instruments, new standards of quality, new education programs in schools, new sub- contractors—the list goes on and on. If this metaphor is expanded to include aircraft, airfields, flying training, the training of mechan- ics, and such sciences as meteorology, it quickly becomes obvious how great an effect establishing an aviation industry will have on culture and economy. Deeper analysis will reveal that the effects go further, intruding on agriculture, mining, forestry, transportation, manpower requirements, raw material use, priorities—in short upon almost every aspect of national life.  Nonetheless, in the years prior to 1914, the old order held sway, with aviation receiving a very small percentage of each nation’s defense budget. That portion allocated to aviation did grow over the years 1910 to 1913, probably at as great a pace as the infant industry could absorb.  In several countries, there were two important manifestations of the increased regard for military aviation indicated by the growth in spending. The first of these was the formal establishment of an air    Fledgling Wings 45  arm, while the second was the establishment of formal trials to obtain aircraft designed for military use.  Naturally, given its great