, which they conducted for the most part with Sopwith Camels, S.E.5s, and Bristol F.2B fighters. The de Havilland D.H. 5 was intro- duced in 1917 as a ground attack plane, but was unpopular for a number of reasons, not least of which was the pilot’s vulnerability to ground fire, and his almost certain death in case the aircraft turned over on landing. In May 1918, the Sopwith Salamander, an armored ground attack aircraft, was tested in France, but no operational units were outfitted with them by the end of the war.  The losses with the Camel and the D.H. 5 were utterly appalling, averaging 30 percent per day every day they were used in close air support.” The effect upon the RFC/RAF’s morale was so devastating that the ground attack mission was virtually expunged from prac- tice during the postwar years. It was for this reason that the RAF was    88 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  so deficient in ground assault aircraft and tactics in World War II, not developing either specialized aircraft or tactics until late in the Desert War with the appearance of the Hawker Hurricane modifi- cation, the “Hurribomber.” Ironically, emphasis was placed on “light bombers” such as the Fairey Battle and Bristol Blenheim, which were slaughtered when they engaged in combat in France in 1940. It is not an exaggeration to say that the adverse British expe- rience in ground support work during World War I severely affect- ed RAF performance in the early years of World War II.  The success of the cooperation between the Schlachstaffeln and the infantry had a profound effect both upon German military thinking and upon history. The Versailles Treaty reduced the size of German armed forces of all kinds to a miniscule level. Germany was allowed no air force, a tiny navy with no modern capital ships or submarines, and a 100,000-man army intended only to maintain internal order. Although the treaty did render Germany impotent for years, it did not stop surreptitious research and develo