ive ships of the line. He concluded that no sovereign could defend his country against such a force, which might appear at any place and any time. (And, given the vagaries of wind and weather, that is probably what would have happened—the dispatched troops would have landed not where they were destined to go, but anywhere and at any time.)  The interest of the king and Franklin in ballooning was repeated all across Europe, and progress in ballooning was rapid. Only eleven days later, the first humans to be carried in a hydrogen bal- loon took off from the Tuileries Gardens in Paris. Marie-Noél Robert and Professor Charles flew more than twenty-seven miles in just over two hours, landing safely at Nesle-la-Vallée.  There were elements in even these early flights that in later years characterized air power in general, and the European interpretation of air power in particular, tempering its influence on history. Ballooning was perceived as a daring gentleman’s sport, something in which only the rich and the privileged could indulge. Most of all, it    Appendix 391  was obviously dangerous, so that a balloonist was by definition a brave man. For most of the early years of flight, this same combination of danger and elitism combined to attract the best of young nobility in many countries, but especially in France and Germany. When the various national military services first became interested in aviation, many of its early practitioners were drawn from this noble elite. It should be noted that these same members of the noble elite had influence in the governments of their country, with the result that funds were spent far more freely on military aviation in the modern European states and in Russia than in the United States.  Military aviation would soon demand far more pilots than the rich and noble could provide. When more pilots were required, an enor- mous number of ordinary people were attracted to ballooning, not only because of the danger, but because it was a ric