way. Yet Trenchard’s very ineptness gave him an advantage in negotiation, where he was    Growth of Air-Power Theory 129  patronized by his opposite numbers. In the Army it was the conspir- atorial, verbose Sir Henry Wilson, while in the Navy it was the hand- some, popular hero of Jutland, First Sea Lord Admiral David Beatty. Beatty was a particular problem, for he wanted the Royal Naval Air Service restored safely under Navy control. In a three-man meeting, Trenchard acknowledged that the fledgling RAF did not have the political influence to oppose the Army and the Navy in its quest for independence. But, knowing his audience, he asked for a sporting chance, pleading, “Give me twelve month’s grace to get started.” Wilson was indifferent—after all, he was not doing the talking—but the request triggered Beatty’s sense of fair play, and he acquiesced.'  Now one would think that if the premier British architect of air- power philosophy, Trenchard, were given command of the RAF for ten of its most critical years, from 1919 to 1929, the RAF of World War II would certainly have reflected his air-power philosophy. Such was not to be the case. To understand why it was not, we need to examine first just what Trenchard’s philosophy of air power was.  It is characteristic of most philosophers of air power, as, indeed, it is with most philosophers in general, that their positions change over time and with changes in circumstance. So it was with Trenchard, who had a great ability to adjust his vision to the resources he had to work with. Before the war, he had breathed life and substance into an as yet unorganized Central Flying School. In 1914, Trenchard replaced his béte noire, Sykes, as commandant of the Military Wing, when the latter was promoted. He found the Military Wing greatly depleted, and worked hard to restore it. Then in 1915, he became commander of the Royal Flying Corps, and somehow breathed the spirit of aggression into a badly equipped and often ill- trained ser