seph Joffre, the “Hero of the Marne,” saw the advantages of aviation early on, being particularly impressed by the military maneuvers of 1912, in which sixty aircraft had participated, the great- est number ever in France to that time. Many innovations were intro- duced, including the concept of the “flight” of six aircraft each, the recognition of the hazard involved by the institution of “flight pay,” a dashing new uniform for aviators (dark black, with an ill-advised but    Fighters and Bombers 91  handsome close-fitting collar), and the use of a tricolor roundel under each lower wing. It was Joffre who authorized the formation on September 27, 1914, of the first bomber group in history, Groupe de Bombardement No. 1 (GB 1), composed of three flights of Voisin LA 5 pusher biplanes. The fiery, articulate Gabriel Voisin himself went to the French flying fields to supervise the bomb racks being installed on his aircraft. Initially ninety-millimeter artillery shells equipped with Salmson fin assemblies were used, but these were quickly replaced by the Swedish Aasen bombs that had been developed for use by French dirigibles. Later 155-millimeter artillery shells were adapted for use."*  By 1915, under the leadership of Major Louis Marie de Goys de Mezerac, the French began to organize a deliberate bombing poli- cy, one that acknowledged the principle that to be effective, bomb- ing had to be done on a massive scale. (The problem was that the correct definition of “massive” continued to elude planners for the next thirty years.) The eighteen aircraft of GB 1 were stationed near Nancy, with an adequate supply center. Crews were carefully trained, in part, by the use of a “simulator,” not unlike those used in World War II. The trainee bombardier was placed in a tower over a “moving carpet” which contained the usual images of a landscape, and would use his simulated altitude, air speed, and winds to deter- mine when to release his “bombs.” Other experimentation was done to