at well-planned strikes could take out the leadership ring, not necessarily by killing every- one involved, but by cutting off their ability to control their forces and thus inducing a physical paralysis that would lead to surrender. His thesis also included the idea that successful removal of other COGs (for example, fielded forces) would put the leadership under such severe psychological pressure that the same sort of paralysis would ensue.    356 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Warden put forward his ideas in the Pentagon’s famed Directorate of Plans (“Checkmate”) Division, and they were adopt- ed for the first phase of Operation Desert Storm against Iraq in the Persian Gulf War, so he was perhaps the only air-power philosopher who saw his ideas promptly executed in action, at least in part. Critics of Warden’s plan (called “Instant Thunder” to contrast it to “Rolling Thunder” of the Vietnam War) considered it too opti- mistic, and faulted it for failing to consider ground operations suf- ficiently. The most glaring defect, and one that resonates even at the time of this writing, is that the air campaign was not designed to remove Iraqui leader Saddam Hussein from power, and of course, did not do so. It may be that the greatest benefit of Warden’s plan- ning and philosophy was that it put the USAF on course for a sud- den and massive attack on Iraq and its forces, rather than falling prey to the “Rolling Thunderish” plan of gradually escalating attacks that the Tactical Air Command had hurriedly put forward.’  In the end, Warden’s plan was retained in part, with one of his Checkmate planners, then-Lieutenant Colonel David A. Deptula, serving as part of a planning staff. This staff assisted Brigadier General Buster C. Glosson in meeting the demand for an exe- cutable air campaign.  In looking back over air-power philosophy, however, one finds that although the terms may be different, the basic idea has remained the same: air power permits the avoidance of