em, but the Soviet Union could not be sure about that. A token force of sixteen Lockheed F-80 jet fighters was flown to Germany.    The Cold War, 1945-62 291  The Western Allies seemed to have two alternatives, fight or flight. Under the guidance of General Lucius D. Clay, a third alternative was recommended to President Truman: the aerial supply of basic com- modities to the citizens of West Berlin until the matter could be resolved diplomatically. Clay then asked the commander of United States Air Forces in Europe, Major General Curtis E. LeMay, if in fact West Berlin could be supplied with the estimated 4,500 tons of sup- plies it needed daily—almost eight times that which had been required but never delivered to the German Sixth Army in Stalingrad.  LeMay responded that the USAF could do anything, and initiated an immediate airlift that marshaled 102 Douglas C-47s and two Douglas C-54s. On June 26 the first eighty tons of supplies, primari- ly medicine, were flown in. This would build to a vast flow of air- craft, men, and supplies to provide air power with its first victory of the Cold War, and do so without dropping a single bomb.  Major General William H. Tunner, who had distinguished him- self in the massive supply of China over the Himalayan “Hump,” was brought in to oversee the airlift. Backed by the entire air force, Tunner standardized equipment, selecting the four-engine Douglas C54 as the primary transport and then establishing an efficient sys- tem in which an aircraft was landing at West Berlin airports every ninety seconds.  The C-54s were not designed to carry coal, grain, and other bulk supplies, but they did it so effectively that airlift totals reached 2,000 tons per day by July 31, and then 5,583 tons per day by September 18. As the totals built, the rations issued to West Berlin citizens increased, and Soviet embarrassment mounted.  Ineffective attempts were made to disrupt the steady, conveyor belt-like flow of C-54s streaming in orbits throu