es flew many missions against enemy targets, but always on a small scale, usually with no more than six aircraft involved. Neither side attempted to gain air superiority by eliminating the enemy in air combat, and, in truth, the airmen of neither side showed either desire or aptitude for battle. The training and tactics that the United States had provided the Royal Iranian Air Force had residual effect with the Islamic Iranian Air Force, and gradually the Iranians gained dominance over the Iraqi Air Force, which, as it would in its next war, dispersed its aircraft to neutral countries to escape attack. Neither side practiced the use of air power in support of ground attacks. Despite the inclusion of terror tactics involving Scud missiles and chemical weapons, air power became a virtual non-issue in the war. Some observers believed that both sides regarded air power as a means not to win the war, but instead as a measure to avoid losing it.’ One of the major ironies of the war was the clandestine maintenance support Israel provided Iran to keep its aircraft and other sophisticated weapons operating.  The difficulty in understanding the misuse of air power by both Iraq and Iran is found in the general difficulty of the Western mind to understand the Muslim culture. What the West defined as misuse    352 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  was apparently the correct use to both Iraq and Iran. It is a mystery to the West, but no greater mystery than the fact that the two nations, with their long history of hostility, could endure an eight- year war with its many thousands of casualties, and yet still be able to rally to the common causes of obliterating Israel and opposing the United States. Ultimately Iraq (with, ironically enough, the help of United States intelligence and weaponry) wore Iran down and led to a peace that did not significantly alter the pre-war conditions.  The ill use of air power in the Iran and Iraq war would serve as a backdrop to the creation