ennenkampf and Samsonov were bitter personal enemies, and this strained relationship may have contributed to their ultimate deba- cle.  The weight of the attacks panicked the German General Max von Prittwitz, who called for and received reinforcements from von Moltke, thus further weakening the “strong right wing” of the Schlieffen plan. When Prittwitz announced his intention to retreat to the Vistula, however, von Moltke sacked him, replacing him with sixty-seven-year-old General Hindenburg, who was recalled from retirement. His Chief of Staff was the forty-nine-year-old General Erich Ludendorf, who had distinguished himself on the Western Front with the capture of the fortress city of Liége.  German intelligence was greatly assisted by the Russian practice of broadcasting their orders in the clear (i.e., not in code), and information thus gathered was often quickly confirmed by aerial reconnaissance. Between August 29 and 31, aerial reconnaissance discovered the unexpected Russian buildup to the south. On the twenty-ninth, Lieutenants Gottfried Mertens and Ernst Canter were flying a Taube, the birdlike observation aircraft widely used in German service. They landed to report to their Army Corps head- quarters, where telephone lines were knocked out. The two flyers were then dispatched on a dream assignment for ambitious young officers. They were to carry their important news directly to Eighth Army headquarters with instructions to report directly to Hindenburg and Ludendorf. The news they brought avoided a German surprise and enabled troops to be moved to exploit a weakness about to be discovered in the Russian dispositions. On the thirtieth, observer Oberleutnant Martin Korner and pilot Leutnant  Air Power in World War I 61  Hans Hesse noted the isolation of the Russian VI Army Corps, which permitted the encirclement of the Russian Second Army.” Airmen also kept close tabs on the slow advance of the Russian First Army so that the Germans could use their forces a