f the Japanese. Oddly enough, he is usually portrayed in admiring tones even in the his- tories of his wartime enemy, the United States.  As a young officer, Yamamoto had been wounded in the May 26-27, 1905, Battle of Tsushima, a heroic start to a famous career. Despite this baptism of battleship glory, he learned to fly in the early 1920s, solo- ing in a trainer. His talents put him on a fast track. As the Naval Attaché in the Japanese Embassy in the United States in the mid- 1920s, he observed the industrial power of America and there realized that carriers were beginning to eclipse battleships in strategic impor- tance. Against much opposition from traditionalist “big gun” officers in the Japanese Navy, he fostered the idea of the carrier strike force. As he moved up the career ladder, he became captain of two famous ships, the cruiser Jsuzu and the aircraft carrier Akagi. He next com- manded the First Carrier Division before becoming Chief of the Japanese Navy’s Aeronautics Department. During this swift progress he became a leading proponent of naval air power, not a popular posi- tion in Japan at the time, when national policy was always to build bat- tleships that were larger and more powerful than those of rival navies.  Following the same path that it had followed in establishing all of its modern industries, Japan had first imported aircraft, then imported foreign engineers to build aircraft under license. By the early 1930s, the Land of the Rising Sun was well on its way to creat- ing an indigenous aircraft industry, and Yamamoto used his growing authority to elicit new and modern designs. He became Minister of the Navy and then, in 1939, Chief of Naval Aviation Headquarters.  In a September 1940 conference with Premier Fumimaro Konoe at the latter’s private residence, Yamamoto, now the Commander in Chief of the Combined Fleet and the First Fleet, was asked what the  The Growth of Air Power, 1941-43 225  Navy’s prospects were in the event of a war with Ame