n World War I 67  A crew of twenty in a photographic lab developed the photos in a few hours, then submitted them to thirty photo interpreters, each one an expert in his own section of the front, who compared them to the photos of the previous day. They were then submitted direct- ly to General Maxime Weygand, Marshal Ferdinand Foch’s Chief of Staff. At war’s end, Foch personally decorated Weiller with the Legion of Honor, but urged that his methods remain secret.”  All of the opposing armies had similar requirements for long- range reconnaissance. It was a relative term, as in practice it meant flights of no more than thirty-six to sixty miles behind enemy lines, conducted at altitudes up to 20,000 feet or so, and flown at ninety to a hundred miles per hour. On the German side, long-range recon- naissance aircraft came to be highly specialized, as with the German Rumpler C VII Rubilt which appeared late in the war. It employed a 240-horsepower Maybach engine, using an extra high-compression ratio as a crude form of supercharging. The Maybach’s full-throttle horsepower could not be used at lower altitudes without causing damage. As altitude increased, however, the reserve horsepower could be called upon to improve performance. The C VII Rubilt could fly at a hundred miles per hour at altitudes as high as 24,000 feet. It routinely operated at 20,000 feet, well above the ceiling of most Allied fighters and out of the range of most antiaircraft fire.”  No one could have imagined that fifty years later, with the Lockheed SR-71, “long-range reconnaissance” would mean missions several thousand miles long conducted at three times the speed of sound and at altitudes of 60,000 feet and more.  The Royal Flying Corps had not anticipated the need for cam- eras, and its airmen often provided their own equipment until the spring of 1915 when a specially designed camera developed by J. T. C. Moore-Brabazon (later Lord Brabazon of Tara) and Lieutenant C. D. M. Campbell was placed i