t.  Perhaps the most influential aspect of the Italian campaign was philosophical rather than military, for it fell to Major (General Staff) Giulio Douhet, provisionary battalion commander, to make the full report on the campaign. Douhet had for years been an advocate of air power, writing articles in the service journal La Preparazione, but the campaign in Tripoli gave him his first chance to report facts rather than theories, and he made the most of it. His extensive report analyzed the technical and professional considerations that had affected the use of aircraft, and he drew interesting inferences on the preparation of flying personnel, their recruitment and train- ing, as well as the types of aircraft to be procured. He concluded with an organizational proposal that became the structural framework for Italian aviation and industry during the 1914-18 war in Europe.  His experience and his report prepared him to write one of the most influential documents in the development of air power, Command of the Air.  Other Conflicts  The First Balkan War of 1912-13 saw Turkey in conflict once again, this time with the Balkan League consisting of Bulgaria, Greece, and Serbia. This was the first international war during which all combat- ants deployed operational aircraft. While the air war was not integrat- ed as tightly into the ground war as it had been in the Italian campaign in Libya, it was nonetheless influential, coming as it did on the heels of the Italian successes. One of the major contributions, to become so significant in later years, was the export of military aircraft, a business that would come to have significant importance, not only in the bal- ance of payments but also in the political alignment of nations.  Greece had sent six officers to France in 1911, and there pur- chased aircraft to equip its newly formed air units in the Greek Army  40 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  and Navy. The Army Aviation Unit was ready for action on October 12, 191