d a centralized command and control of defensive air power.  Turning for the time being from this ultimate horror, it should be noted that this book also focuses extensively on the influence of personalities on air power, and thus their influence on history. There were marvelously gifted leaders in sea warfare, from before Nelson until after Nimitz, but there have been relatively few evan- gelists of sea power. The reason, perhaps, was that sea power was so much a given that it took a Mahan to reveal the full measure of its importance. Advocates of air power, in contrast, had to struggle to get their ideas across, often choosing a message so stridently opti- mistic that their credibility was inevitably lost. There emerged many forceful, articulate, and, it must be said, widely divergent personalities,    Introduction 13  attempting both to define and direct air power. This came about in part because practitioners of air power by their very nature are forceful individuals and in part because the technology of air power changed so swiftly over time.  These personalities received widespread notice because there was a powerful factor abetting the influence of air power on history. This was the chronological coincidence of aviation, motion pic- tures, radio, and the growth in the influence of the press—the media as it is called today. Fictional concepts of air power predated the Wright brothers’ first flights in 1903, but more serious expres- sions on the use of air power began to be heard after Louis Blériot’s famous 1909 flight across the English Channel, a flight that told the world England was no longer an island. Over the course of the next half-century, ideas on air power and its use received a wide recep- tion because people in general were vastly more informed about air power than their predecessors had been about sea power.  Indeed, they were often “too well informed” because air power became a tool and a target of intensive propaganda efforts. It was the case a