tly depleted, and worked hard to restore it. Then in 1915, he became commander of the Royal Flying Corps, and somehow breathed the spirit of aggression into a badly equipped and often ill- trained service.  Trenchard was a hands-on manager, all too aware that his philoso- phy of having the RFC always on a “relentless and incessant” offensive was costly in lives and aircraft. Yet he persisted because he felt that it was a winning strategy in the long run. He shared with all airpower philosophers the idea that air superiority must be obtained, and it seemed to him that an offensive policy was the key to obtaining it.  When the RFC began to receive more capable equipment, Trenchard expanded his views on bombing. He believed for a time in the value of attacking German airfields, but the results changed his opinion on this subject. He articulated what would later be called    130 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  “panacea bombing” by attacking transport networks and supply facilities. Looking ahead, Trenchard thought that strategic bomb- ing might be useful in striking the enemy production centers for steel, chemicals, armament, and similar essential war industries.  When elbowed aside by Sykes from his position as CAS and made commander of the Independent Force, Trenchard understood that he was to conduct “a sustained and continuous attack on one large center after another until each center was destroyed and the indus- trial population largely dispersed to other towns.” In other words, he was to create a mirror image, doing to Germany what Germany had wished to do to Great Britain. If possible, he was in particular to destroy Berlin.  Trenchard was a realist, and he knew what might be done with the relative handful of Handley Page 0/400 and de Havilland D.H. 4 and D.H. 9 equipment available. He chose the second of the two alternatives available to him, to attack “as many large industrial cen- ters as it was possible to reach with the machines at my disposal.”* Tr