llooning in the Civil War. There was no questioning the patriotism of these men; the problem was their ego, which demand- ed primacy of place in the ballooning world.  Wise at fifty-three was widely recognized as the premier balloonist in the United States, and could easily have avoided military service. Instead he volunteered to raise a company of expert riflemen in his native Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and lead it into battle. His reputation    Appendix 405  preceded him, however, and he was asked by Captain Amiel W. Whipple, the Deputy Chief of the Bureau of Topographical Engineers, how much it would cost to prepare a balloon capable of lifting five hundred pounds and provide an aeronaut to operate it.  Wise responded immediately that the balloon would cost $300, and that he would volunteer to be the balloonist at no cost to the government. When the balloon specifications were changed, he responded with a second estimate of $850. By July 1, 1861, Wise was officially appointed a military balloonist, unaware that another archrival, Thaddeus S. C. Lowe, was actively competing for that role.  In retrospect, the interpersonal competition was ludicrous. The Union would soon be spending millions of dollars a day on the cru- elest war in American history, and could well have afforded to have dozens of balloonists assigned to each of its far-flung armies. But in the confusion and the haste of preparing for war, the United States military leadership was too engrossed in day-to-day events to pay the attention that military ballooning required to be a success, and the bickering of balloonists did nothing to solve this essential problem.  Whipple was a conscientious officer of limited vision who did not understand that so innovative a weapon as the balloon would require trained personnel and special wagons for handling equip- ment and the generation of hydrogen. The times were stressful, and Whipple lacked the patience to ensure that the inflated balloons were assigned to the c