st important of all, the supercharger, which was to be the key to American fighter and bomber success in World War II. Moreover, Mitchell’s dedication in research was passed on to General Henry H. (“Hap”) Arnold, who fostered it in both the United States Army Air Forces and, by his legacy, in the United States Air Force.    150 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Both the United States and Great Britain were fortunate to have established organizations fostering aeronautical research and devel- opment. The previously mentioned NACA and the Royal Aircraft Establishment (including the British Advisory Committee for Aeronautics) undertook systematic research and invested in expen- sive capital equipment, such as wind tunnels.  Foreign sales somewhat ameliorated the severe Air Corps budget crunch in the late 1930s. The French and British Purchasing Commissions buoyed the American aviation industry by ordering American aircraft and by providing the funds to build the factories to produce them. Almost all American airframe manufacturers benefited from this support, and from smaller sales to China, the Netherlands, Sweden, Thailand, and elsewhere. The aircraft used by foreign nations included the Boeing B-17, Brewster Buffalo, Consolidated Catalina, Curtiss P-36 and P40, Douglas Havoc, Grumman Martlet, Lockheed Hudson, Martin Maryland and Baltimore, Seversky P-35, Vultee Vanguard and Vindicator, and many more.  These sales were vital, for the United States was the political victim of isolationism, which regarded the Atlantic and the Pacific as ample bars to any threat from overseas. Perhaps even more important, these sales were vital to technology, for they showed just how far behind American requirements were for the standards of a European war. As a result, armor, self-sealing tanks, heavier armament, and increased power were soon factored into American designs.  The national politics of the United States were ostensibly neutral, but in fact President Franklin D. Roo