charge.  United States naval aviation, in contrast, was well suited for the war, given the limitations of the rotation of task force assets and the requirements for self-defense. It had virtual immunity from North Vietnamese or Viet Cong attack, and possessed aircraft well suited for the mission with which it was charged. Unfortunately, even after the experience presumably gained in World War II and Korea, it proved impossible to conduct joint operations of USAF and naval aviation forces under a single air combat controller. Ostensibly there were too many conflicting demands, including the Navy requirement to allo- cate resources to fleet defense and communication incompatibility, but the real reason resided in the old bugaboo, service rivalry. As a result, it was necessary to resort to the primitive device of allocating targets to the Air Force and to the Navy by separate geographic areas  The Cold War, 1963-73 329  (called Route Packages), rather than allocating targets on the basis of importance and the concerted use of all resources.  In the long conflict in Southeast Asia, there were many bombing campaigns, most with intriguing operational names, such as Flaming Dart, Commando Hunt, or Steel Tiger. The latter two campaigns were serious attempts to halt the flow of men and supplies from North Vietnam through Laos and Cambodia into South Vietnam. A good assessment can be made of the importance of air power in the Vietnam War by comparing the two major bombing campaigns against North Vietnam. The first of these was Operation Rolling Thunder, conducted from 1965 through 1968. It was followed by a four-year halt to bombing North (but not South) Vietnam. The sec- ond phase to be reviewed consists of President Richard M. Nixon’s two 1972 bombing campaigns, Linebacker and Linebacker II.  Operation Rolling Thunder  The administration’s confidence in the air power of the USAF and the United States Navy was great, so that very high goals were set. President Johnson expect