made against Great Britain. Some 2,772 bombs were dropped, with a weight of 164,821 pounds of explosives.    Fighters and Bombers 117  There were 857 killed, and 2,058 injured, and total property dam- age reached $7,172,630.”  The Germans would assess the combined effects of their airship and bombing campaigns against Great Britain, and come to the conclusion that the results obtained were not worth the cost expended in obtaining them. This conclusion would have a pro- found effect upon a military mind-set that already was predisposed to using air power as an extension of its army ground forces.  It would have the reverse effect upon Great Britain, which would undertake a massive—many say disproportionate—strategic bomb- ing effort in World War II, and which had a military mind-set already prejudiced against the use of air power with its army ground forces.  Great Britain’s Bombing Efforts  Mention has already been made of Great Britain’s early preemp- tive strikes against Zeppelin sheds. Additional strikes were made at intervals, including one flown from the modified cruiser Furious on the airship sheds at Tondern, Germany, on July 19, 1918. (Aircraft could take off from the Furious, but could not land on it.) Seven were flown off the Furious, six reached Tondern, and their fifty-pound bombs destroyed the L 54 and L 60 in their sheds. The Camels were supposed to fly back and land by waiting destroyers, but only two pilots accomplished this rather difficult feat. Three became lost and landed in Denmark, while a fourth was drowned at sea.”  In general, however, British bombing was confined to daylight raids behind enemy lines, with small numbers of aircraft attacking a variety of targets. Given that the bombers were such obsolete types as the Royal Aircraft Factory B.E.2c and R.E.8 aircraft, and that the bombs usually weighed either 20 or 112 pounds, it is not surprising that little damage was caused. In early 1916, tactics changed so that a large number of bombers w