States aerospace power. In the next few days the Soviet Union signaled its intentions by not attempting to cross the five- hundred-mile boundary line of the naval quarantine. There followed an exchange of messages, varying in tone, but revealing Soviet aware- ness that a miscalculation could result in a nuclear exchange. Sadly, on October 27, Major Anderson, who had discovered the satellite emplacements, was shot down and killed by an SA-2 missile.  While messages were being exchanged, private diplomatic con- versations were proceeding, and Khrushchev was assured that the United States would not invade Cuba and that the previously deter- mined plans to remove IRBMs from Turkey would be carried out. On October 28 Khrushchev accepted the United States’ demands that the missiles be removed and the sites be destroyed, and the immediate crisis was over, although additional pressure had to be applied to obtain the removal of the forty-two II-28 bombers. Extensive reconnaissance saw that the Soviets were bulldozing the missile sites, and when United States Navy vessels boarded departing    The Cold War, 1945-62 313  Soviet ships, they were shown that there were indeed missiles on board being returned to the USSR.  Secretary of State Dean Rusk made a public statement that the United States and the Soviet Union had stood eyeball to eyeball, and the USSR had blinked. It was perhaps too glib a characteriza- tion, but the entire episode was politically disastrous for Khrushchev, who lost face within his own Communist Party. Red China took careful note of the incident, decided that Khrushchev was soft, and began backing away from the close relations that the two nations had previously enjoyed.  In later analyses of the crisis, two unlikely characters, General Curtis E. LeMay, then USAF Chief of Staff, and Premier Nikita Khrushchev found themselves in agreement about the importance of the American nuclear capability. Khrushchev stated, “About twenty percent of all Strategic Air C