c and R.E.8 aircraft, and that the bombs usually weighed either 20 or 112 pounds, it is not surprising that little damage was caused. In early 1916, tactics changed so that a large number of bombers would attack single targets in what were termed “mass raids,” even though the largest number in any single raid was thirty-one, on March 9, 1916. Further, formal bombing instructions issued in February 1916 stated that no bombing should be done at a distance greater than a few miles from the front lines. The bombing of railway stations and bridges was not to take place unless in conjunction with “definite operations of an important nature.”    118 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  The wisdom of this directive was borne out in the surprisingly sat- isfactory bombing operations conducted during the Battle of the Somme, in which some 185 aircraft were deployed against railways, airfields, and ammunition depots with much success but with heavy losses. The losses derived in part from the fact that when the B.E.2c aircraft carried bombs, they were obliged to leave the observer/gun- ner behind, and were thus virtually defenseless against German fighter attack. The greatest effect of the British effort was perhaps on German morale, which was highlighted in a blistering memorandum issued by General Fritz von Bulow, commander of the First German Army. In it he noted that “the first weeks of the Somme battle were marked by a complete inferiority of our own air forces” and that “heavy losses in personnel and material were inflicted on our artillery by the enemy’s guns, assisted by excellent air observation, without our being able to have recourse to the same methods.”  Yet the proportion of bombing sorties to all other aerial activities of the Royal Flying Corps remained low. The Battle of the Somme lasted from July 1 to November 17, 1916. At the beginning of the battle, there were 426 pilots available; during the battle, 576 were killed, wounded, or missing; new recruits bro