nly three fighter units, all equipped with obsolete Arado Ar 65, Ar 68, and Heinkel He 51 biplanes. Of these, only one unit was fitted with machine guns, and these had not been bore-sighted for use. The three units were flown from airfield to airfield, and reportedly painted with dif- ferent insignia to give any foreign observers the impression of much greater strength.? Luftwaffe bombers, primarily the Junkers Ju 52/3m that had started life as airliners, were incapable of striking the knockout blow. They might have reached London from German bases, but not if they carried bombs. The latter point was moot, however, for there were precious few bombs—some estimate less than two hundred total—in German arsenals.  The Germans were successful in their first use of air power as diplomatic propaganda, and the Rhineland occupation taught Hitler several things. First, he took his measure of the enemy pow- ers and found that, as powerful as they were, they were not willing to fight. Second, it put him in a position of power over his generals, who had protested against the idea, which had secured for Germany the protection of the Ruhr and a springboard to attack France. Finally, it showed him the full potential of the threat of bombing as a means of blackmail and extortion, and not just as an instrument of destruction.  Later in the year, the spectacle of the Olympics played out in Berlin, and selected visiting dignitaries were shown fly-bys of new Luftwaffe aircraft. This show of force soon took on a more elaborate form, with especially favored guests being taken on impressive tours through German factories, testing stations, and even frontline units. Two prominent Americans, Charles Lindbergh and Alford Williams, were given this deluxe treatment, even though the Germans were well aware that the two men were experts on fact- finding missions for their government.  Lindbergh’s visits are especially interesting, because the intelligence benefits they provided to the United Stat