dern mass production techniques, so that many of their aircraft were built on a “file to fit” basis. The result was that parts from one Zero (for example) would not fit another. Consequently, many aircraft in very good shape were written off in the field because they could not be repaired locally. Analysis of Japanese designs also indicates that there was an endemic tendency to over-engineer even some of the smaller assemblies. For example, the handholds on the sides of the Zero were complex spring-loaded mechanisms; the corresponding parts on an American fighter were simple folding pegs.  Ironically it was the very success of the Japanese air forces, par- ticularly that of the Navy, which led to their ultimate failure in World War II. The Japanese concluded that a relatively small force of excellent aircraft flown by extremely proficient crews was the most economical and the most effective use of air power. They tai- lored their training and production programs accordingly.  Against an opponent like China, this conclusion was unquestion- ably true. Unfortunately for Japan, its future opponents would not always be poorly trained and ill-equipped Chinese. This was the fatal error, one that doomed any hope that Japan might have had for air superiority in a war against the United States. Japan’s inability to draw the correct conclusions from its combat experience led it down two disastrous paths. In the first instance it permitted pilot training stan- dards to be set so high that as few as a hundred pilots per year were graduated from flying schools. When it became necessary to vastly expand pilot training to meet the requirements of war against the United States, Japan was unable to do so. In a similar manner, Japanese aircraft had been optimized to certain design points—speed, range, and maneuverability. This meant that other critical areas were slighted, including armor, self-sealing tanks, and even structural strength. This design failure was not a handicap when it