ive machine would be useful to an army in observing the enemy’s position, maneuvers, movements, and sup- plies, and could report them by signals.* As with most seminal military articles, there was no immediate effect, but the seed had been planted.  The first human flight was planned with pomp and ceremony, and with a launching mechanism that in its own way foreshadowed the immensely complex launch facilities at Cape Canaveral. There was risk implicit in launching a balloon, just as there is in a rocket, for the balloon itself was terribly flammable, and had to be sus- pended over a roaring fire to be inflated.  As the launch date approached, the king decided that it would be safer if two condemned criminals were sent up on the first flight. If they lived, their sentences would be commuted. If they did not—c est la vie, so to speak. The king’s safety-consciousness did not appeal to the swashbuckling Gallic spirit, and Rozier protested bitterly. He asked two friends, the Duchess de Polignac and the Marquis Francois- Laurent d’Arlandes to intercede. Both were considered favorites of Queen Marie Antoinette, and the duchess was also a friend of the king. They succeeded, the king agreeing with some reluctance, but recognizing the essential French éan in the request. Then to the sur- prise and discomfort of the marquis, who had not contemplated the adventure and was perhaps a little light on élan, the king “suggested” that d’Arlandes accompany Rozier on the historic flight.  To obtain the proper balance, Rozier and the Marquis had to place themselves in opposite sides of the balcony-like basket in which they were to ride. The balloon was initially suspended from tall wooden gantries on either side of the fire pit; when it became suitably inflated with hot air, enthusiastic spectators restrained it by holding four guide ropes.  Unlike the utilitarian colors that characterize the Space Shuttle, the balloon was decorated beautifully in blue and gold, displaying    390 THE IN