while his choice of terms was some- times confusing, it was clear that he meant that the interdiction of supplies by American air power had sapped the Red forces of the strength necessary to defeat the outnumbered UN forces.  Unfortunately for the furtherance of tactical air power or a bal- ance of forces, the predominance of the Strategic Air Command began to have a counterproductive effect on the Air Force as a whole. As SAC matured, its success caused its procedures to be emu- lated by other Air Force elements, not always with good effect. In 1954, when the former Commander of Far East Air Forces, General Otto P. (“Opie”) Weyland took over, he announced his decision to make the Tactical Air Command the equivalent of SAC. It followed that TAC would procure aircraft such as the Republic F-105, designed for the nuclear mission. TAC’s training would henceforth focus on the nuclear mission to the detriment of training in con- ventional methods of bomb delivery and in air-to-air combat. This trend was emphasized when a former SAC commander, General Walter C. Sweeney Jr., assumed command of TAC on August 1, 1961. Sweeney brought a much needed discipline and rigor to TAC, but he also insisted on the importance of delivering tactical nuclear weapons. There were many veterans, including mavericks such as then-Colonel Robin Olds, who campaigned internally for training in “tried and true” tactics (that is, dropping conventional bombs and obtaining air superiority in dogfights), but they were in the minority, and their ideas were overlooked. Sweeney’s appointment was also a symptom of how influential SAC was becoming through- out the Air Force, as generals brought up under LeMay were sent to command other organizations.  The United States Navy, determined not to be phased out of exis- tence by Air Force technology, also pursued a nuclear course, bring- ing in large aircraft such as the Douglas AD-3 Skywarrior for that role.* Fortunately, the Navy also believed in power projec