as a margin for error. The wings had a span of forty feet four inches and a chord (width) of six feet six inches, providing 510 square feet of wing area. They calculated that they would require an engine of at least eight horsepower to propel the aircraft forward against the wind, and were delighted when the  30 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  one they themselves designed and built (with the assistance of Charles Taylor) delivered twelve, giving them another very mea- sured margin of safety. The biggest engineering challenge was the propellers, for there was no existing data from which to work. They had presumed that there would be a great deal of information on the design of marine propellers from which they could extrapolate data. There was not. Then, intuitively seeing the propeller as a rotat- ing wing, they created a marvelously efficient design that delivered, within 1 percent, the thrust they calculated they needed. The fin- ished aircraft weighed 605 pounds, to which had to be added the 140-pound weight of the pilot, both Orville and Wilbur weighing about the same.  The Wrights were also extremely practical and economic in their approach, having spent only about $1,000 on their experimentation by the time of their successful first flights. Professor Langley had spent about $73,000 on his Great Aerodrome, of which a large per- centage, perhaps as much as $20,000, had gone into the houseboat and catapult system he had devised to sling it into the air. The launching system did not work properly, or at least Langley claimed that it did not. The Wrights’ launching mechanism consisted of some two-by-four boards laid end-to-end and three bicycle wheel hubs, with a total cost of four dollars. It worked beautifully. The dif- ference in approach really sums up the difference between the Wrights and Langley as aircraft designers, i.e., a successful launch system for four dollars, versus an unsuccessful one for $20,000.  Designing and building a machine to thei