g Thunder had cost the North Vietnamese an estimated $150 million. This would have been a great expense for an impoverished country, if the losses in trucks, rice, oil, SAMs, and everything else not been replenished by China and the Soviet Union, who competed with each other like jealous suitors in lavishing aid on North Vietnam. The other side of the war’s profit and loss statement revealed that the effort was costing the United States $250 million per month. And in spite of this level of expenditure, Secretary McNamara noted that he perceived “no significant impact on the war in South Vietnam.””  The decision based on this analysis was to spend more money. From 1965 to 1966, Rolling Thunder sorties rose from 55,000 to 110,000, while costs rose from $460 million to $1.2 billion, for both ammunition and aircraft were becoming more sophisticated and more expensive. The futile effort continued until November 1, 1968, when President Johnson halted the bombing of North Vietnam north of the Nineteenth Parallel, and called a halt to his own admin- istration by announcing that he would not run for reelection.  The point must be made that Rolling Thunder was a failure despite the incredible bravery of the air crews who fought to carry it out and the hard work of the ground crews who made it possible. But it was not a failure of air power—it was instead a classic exam- ple of how not to use air power. Had the resources expended during Rolling Thunder, plus the resources that had been expended in South Vietnam, been applied in a carefully thought out unrestrict- ed bombing campaign against North Vietnam, the war would have ended on American terms long before December 1968. This is not a hypothetical “what-if” situation; it is based on the hard fact that four years later, when North Vietnam was far stronger, it was beaten into the ground by just such an air campaign.  It is intoxicating to think what air power’s influence on history    The Cold War, 1963-73 333  might have bee