Air Service, Bennie Foulois, to stigmatize him as not a “regular flyer” because he had not been to an Army training school. There was no little irony in this accusation, as far from attending a regular Army training school, Foulois had taught himself to fly, aided by correspondence with the Wright brothers.  Mitchell’s flying catapulted him to prominence, and he became Deputy Chief of the Signal Corps Aviation Section in 1916, being pro- moted to major. This was his ticket to the top, for he found his way to France as a military observer, arriving in Paris on April 10, just four days after the United States had declared war on Germany. Mitchell seized the opportunity. He was soon recognized as the premier  Growth of Air-Power Theory 143  United States aviation officer in France. Promotions followed quick- ly. He became a lieutenant colonel in May and a colonel in June, and was given the rating of Junior Military Aviator despite not hav- ing attended an Army flight training course.  Mitchell was an immediate success, not least because he was flu- ent in French and had a dashing style, dressing flamboyantly and liv- ing in a huge chateau. He raced about France in high-powered cars or flew himself to meetings as he became what today would be called a master networker, making friends, lining up resources for the United States, and promising what he could only hope to deliv- er in the form of aircraft and personnel. Mitchell also succeeded in making a friend of Hugh Trenchard—no easy task for that busy man did not suffer fools lightly—whom he selected as a mentor, and whose ideas he eagerly absorbed. Many of these ideas—but not all— shaped his own views on air power. Mitchell also met with Douhet after the war, and found many things with which to agree.  Mitchell immediately embraced Trenchard’s concept of aircraft as offensive weapons, and of the absolute need for air supremacy, ideas he had demonstrated in the Battle of Saint Mihiel.  He began to publish his ideas whil