devastation that the British bombers were causing on every mission, and this made them fly with a grim determination to halt the stream of enemy aircraft.  The strain on both British and German airmen was tremendous. It has been pointed out that while a Navy ship may be in a fleet action once or twice a year and an Army division might fight for six to eight weeks before being relieved, the Bomber Command squadrons went into battle every night that weather and moonlight permitted, engaging the enemy as often as ten to twenty times a month, for month after month. American bomber crews were relieved after a certain number of missions, initially twenty-five, then thirty-five, and finally fifty, as opposition eased. RAF bomber crews were assigned instructional or other duties after thirty mis- sions, and then returned for another twenty combat sorties. The German crews had no such “tours of duty”; they flew until they were killed or the war ended. The air war over Germany was a savage, bloody battle that exacted a high casualty rate from its participants. The total wartime losses for the three combatants were strikingly similar, with the Germans suffering 80,588, the British 78,287, and the Americans 79,625 casualties.’  Despite an inability to achieve decisive results and despite heavy casualties, Harris inspired a fierce if inexplicable loyalty in his crews. The term inexplicable is apropos because Harris was not personally a warm man, he did not extensively cultivate his crews as a more charismatic leader might have done, and he sent them to their deaths night after night.    The Growth of Air Power, 1941-43 247  Under Harris, Bomber Command made one notable raid after another, including the thousand-plane raid on Cologne on May 30, 1942, the terrifying assault against Hamburg, in which some forty- five thousand were killed and almost that many injured, and cul- minating in the notorious attack on Dresden in 1945. He would begin a campaign against Berlin in August 194