se consisted of 998 bombers, 261 dive-bombers, 224 Messerschmitt Bf 110s, and 805 Bf 109s, along with other miscellaneous types. Of this mixture, it would soon be discovered that the Ju 87 dive-bombers were far too vulnera- ble to be used over England, and that the Bf 110 “escort fighters” had themselves to be escorted, as they were helpless against the RAF’s total of 704 fighters, of which 620 were Hurricanes and Spitfires.  The Luftwaffe crews fought with courage, and had they been allowed to fight the battle using their hard-won experience, the out- come might have been different. Two things worked against them. Instead of concentrating their efforts solely on Fighter Command, the Luftwaffe attempted to defeat all of the RAF, including Bomber and Coastal Commands. This diluted its efforts severely. And, unfor- tunately for the Luftwaffe, both Hitler and Goering were used to quick victories, and the concept of deferred gratification was for- eign to them. They demanded results and impugned the courage of the crews when the desired results were not forthcoming.  Goering issued the first order of the day in his exalted new rank of Reichsmarschall on August 8. It stated:  From Reichsmarshall Goering to all units of Luftlotte 2, 3 and 5. Operation Adler. Within a short period you will wipe the British Air Force from the sky. Heil Hitler.  The bombastic message did not inspire or motivate air crews who  The Search for Air Power, World War IT, 1939-41 213  had seen one-third of their friends lost in the last four months, nor ground crews who were working eighteen hours a day under primi- tive conditions.  Both Goering and Hitler sought to obtain a crushing victory, not in the only way they might have achieved it, a war of attrition in which the larger Luftwaffe eventually wore down the smaller RAF, but instead by shifting objectives. In doing so, they gave the war to the RAF to win. The original strategy of Directive 17 to wipe out the RAF first had been correct, and th