nd the Navy should retain control over their own air forces. It was, therefore, a vindication of the status quo, just as Coolidge and the Navy wished. Despite this decision, legislators drew inferences from the Morrow Board that led to the establishment of the United States Army Air Corps in 1926, a major first step on the way to an independent air arm.  Mitchell resigned from the service on February 1, 1926, and con- tinued to campaign for air power, but was progressively less influ- ential. Lacking a staff for stimulus and ideas, his statements became repetitive. Speaking as a civilian, he lacked the necessary forum from which to operate, and his magazine articles and books were less and less well received by editors. He died in 1936, uncertain that his great crusade would have any lasting effect. Yet by the end of World War II, it was apparent that many of Mitchell’s ideas on air power had proved correct, and that he had laid the foundation for the independent United States Air Force that came into being in 1947. Many subsequent events restored his reputation, especially the Japanese fulfilling his prediction that they would attack Pearl Harbor early one Sunday morning. The United States Congress rec- ognized his achievements in 1948 by awarding him a special medal, and promotion to the rank of Major General.  Growth of Air-Power Theory 149  From the start, Mitchell’s ideas were centered always on the require- ment to win air supremacy, which would make the time-honored task of destroying enemy army and navy forces easier. In time, budget con- siderations and the battleship-bombing triumph made him switch to emphasizing the bomber as a war-winning weapon. In this aspect, his advocacy drove his philosophy; because if he wanted the Air Force to be an independent arm, equal to the Army and the Navy, he had to place the bomber role first. Eventually he would claim that air power alone could defeat an enemy by destroying its vital centers. His fol- lowers ardently bel