y. This led them to confuse strategy with crisis management, two very different disciplines. They would give advice using these techniques in reaching their conclusions on how to deal with the North Vietnamese, and as a direct result, plunge the United States into a long, bitter, and losing war in Southeast Asia that would forfeit the capability of air power in favor of a series of mistaken efforts to “send signals” to an enemy whom they did not even begin to understand.  Thanks in large part to the bad advice given by these Cuban Missile Crisis veterans, American participation in the Vietnam War became a textbook on how not to use air or aerospace power.  Chapter Ten  The Cold War, 1963-73  Doctrine as Its Own Enemy  The remarkable surge in the strategic power of the Soviet Union, as evidenced by its bomber and missile strength, was not at the expense of its tactical forces. The Soviet Union maintained a huge army, equipped with massive numbers of tanks and artillery pieces, and supported by large and effective air forces. Its allies in the Warsaw Pact were similarly well equipped.  As a measure of the scale of Soviet effort, in 1970 it operated about 1,300 ICBMS, 700 IRBMs, 160 SLBMs, and 190 long-range bombers. The Red Air Force had more than 10,000 aircraft includ- ing 725 medium bombers and 4,000 tactical aircraft, for light bomb- ing and close air support. For air defense, there were 3,300 opera- tional interceptors and an immense antiaircraft and surface-to-air missile system. The latter included 8,000 SA-2 Guidelines, plus addi- tional numbers of shorter-range missiles. At least sixty-seven Galosh antiballistic missile launchers were in place around Moscow. The Soviet population of 244 million generated a Gross National Product of about $466 billion, of which $39.8 billion (8.5 percent), was allocated to defense. (These were official figures; unofficial esti- mates put the percentage much higher.)  The Soviet Army was estimated to be 2,000,000 men, with almo