e able to confront each other for almost half a century and never go to war. Nuclear weapons carried with them the implicit threat of Mutually Assured Destruction, and were therefore never used in the Cold War.  The incredible technology displayed in Operation Iraqi Freedom meant that present-day air practitioners of air power were able to go well beyond the most sophisticated concepts of Giulio Douhet, Billy Mitchell, Hugh Trenchard and even Curtis E. LeMay. Intimate knowledge of and proficiency with the advanced technology at their disposal permitted modern leaders to undertake entirely new methods. This proved to be a double advantage, as Saddam Hussein was convinced that the strategy and tactics that worked so well for the coalition in 1991 would be used again.  Instead, he was surprised and disconcerted when the armed forces of the coalition employed asymmetric, network centric warfare' in an unmatched demonstration of both joint operations (Army, Air Force, Navy, Marine and Coast Guard) and combined operations (U.S., U.K. and other forces).  Two other factors helped the concept succeed. The first was obvious even to on-lookers. Space-based technology was effectively integrated with every aspect of military operations. The second was  370 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  far more subtle, for Operation Iraqi Freedom saw the fullest expression of the “Total Force” concept in which reservists and National Guard members fight alongside the regular components.” (Operation Iraqi Freedom may well have stretched the “Total Force” concept to the limit, as Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld has already called for a complete reorganization of both the National Guard and Reserve Forces.)  Traditional warfare calls for an invading army to outnumber defenders by a ratio of at least three to one. During Operation Iraqi Freedom, that ratio was reversed to about one to two. This seemed to defy the doctrine enunciated by Colin Powell, part of which stated that force wa