mber 1918." The strategy allowed the German Air Force to be a viable service to the end, when it was still operating more than 2,700 aircraft on the Western Front.  The acknowledgement that aircraft were essentially an offensive weapon, and the decision that their primary function should be in support of the Army, were two important factors for the future Luftwaffe, which had already begun to take shape in shadow form in several arenas under the Weimar Republic.  It should be noted that under the Weimar Republic and under Hitler, Germany had unique perceptions of the threats to its securi- ty. Before Hitler, Germany had a well-founded fear that either or both France and Poland would initiate a war. France did use its mil- itary might to occupy the Ruhr in 1923, and there were so many dis- putes at the Baltic and Polish frontiers that the so-called Freikorps, essentially private armies serving the helpless German state, were formed to resist them. Under Hitler, the perception of the threat was the same, with the added specter of the might of the Soviet Union added to the equation. The character of his government, however, was to use bullying diplomacy to obtain whatever was pos- sible to obtain, and then to use preemptive aggression to obtain lebensraum (living room) in the territories all the way to the Ural mountains to the east. Hitler, and his able colleague, Joseph Goebbels, used an essentially phantom threat of air power to lever- age Germany’s capacity for bullying.  One of the arenas in which the future Luftwaffe would be shaped was the air-mindedness that Germany had fostered in its popula- tion. Germany was particularly attentive to its youth, creating in 1920 the Deutsche Luftfahrt-Verband as a sort of national flying club for building models and flying gliders. A second arena was the early development of German airlines that culminated in their com- bination into Deutsche Luft Hansa (DHL) in January 1926. DHL would dominate European traffic until World Wa