tulate some of the most important aspects of the phenomenon, with particular regard to their effect upon the future.  First and foremost, incorrect ideas about air power led to political miscalculations of the first water by many nations. These miscalcula- tions usually included imputing too much to air power (always at a time when there really was no true air power anywhere) and also imputing too little to it. The Germans imputed too much to air power in the Battle of Britain; they imputed too little to it in the attack on the Soviet Union. The British imputed too little to it in their early bat- tles in France and North Africa, and far too much to it in their own great bomber offensive. The Japanese imputed far too much to it in starting the war, and far too little in their ultimate defeat. Only the United States and the Soviet Union measured it with some skill. The Soviet Union tailored air power to its powerful land armies, using it as an essential ingredient in its combined arms assault. The United States was wealthy enough to use air power on the scale in which it was needed, which was vastly greater than any country had ever imag- ined, and far beyond the means of almost all of them.  Air power enabled the ground forces of the United States and its allies to win in Europe. In the Pacific, air power joined with naval and ground forces to beat Japan back to a point to which air power could become the decisive weapon. The combined arms of the American Army and Navy, and to a lesser degree, America’s allies, were necessary to establish the bases from which B-29 operations could demolish Japan with conventional bombs. Once those bases were available, air power was decisively influential.  In the hands of well-equipped and able practitioners, air power had at last achieved what its philosophers and prophets had so hope- fully claimed for it. The Cold War, which broke out so soon after the end of World War II, would reveal that air power had become captive to its ne