attacks. Second, it assumed that the enemy could be bluffed, an assumption for which there was no basis to be found in the pre- vious years of successful fighting. Third, Secretary McNamara and his civilian staff who arrogantly agreed with World War I French Premier Georges Clemenceau’s observation that war was too impor- tant to be left to generals, maintained command and control. They determined targets, ordnance loads, and tactics, and then passed these decisions to the president for his approval or disapproval. The Joint Chiefs of Staff could suggest alterations, but their military input was often ignored. Fourth, it was based on no knowledge of the minimum amount of supplies that were necessary to sustain operations in the South. In actual practice, the hardy Viet Cong could get by on only a fraction of what they were receiving, a frac- tion that could be delivered, if necessary, not by trucks or bicycles, but on foot. Fifth, it did not take into consideration the fact that the destruction of supplies in any quantities was meaningless to the North Vietnamese, who had the boundless resources of both China and the Soviet Union to draw upon. Both of those countries were delighted to see the United States involved in the war, frittering time, attention, and assets on a corner of the world that was far from such critical hot centers of gravity as Taiwan or Berlin. Finally, the most disastrous aspect of the plan was that it gave the enemy time to gather more defensive resources and to train its people in the operation of radar systems, antiaircraft weapons, surface-to-air mis- siles, and even jet fighters. North Vietnam took advantage of Rolling Thunder to learn American methods, to grow stronger, and to become a much more difficult opponent.  The campaign began in February 1965, and by June there had been a complete inversion of tactical and strategic air power by the United States. In that month, Strategic Air Command B-52s began flying tactical bombing missions in