mmand, and Iraq did the same. Other Arab states sent contingents of troops, arms, and funds as a gesture of support of the one aim upon which all agreed: the destruction of Israel.  The crisis was aggravated when French President Charles de Gaulle sought to curry favor with the Arab nations by cutting off all weapon supplies to Israel, for many years the primary customer for French export arms. The Egyptian threat soon built to an intolera- ble level (more than 100,000 men, 900 tanks, 1,000 artillery pieces, and 385 combat aircraft, mostly late model MiG-17, -19, and -21 fighters). The Soviet Union supplied Tupolev Tu 16 and Ilyushin Il- 28 jet bombers that could reach Tel Aviv within minutes after take- off from Egyptian airfields.  The fate of Israel was about to be decided in a conflict of power personalities. The charismatic Israeli Minister of Defense, Moshe Dayan, knew that the situation was far more critical than it had been in 1956, but he was held back by the curiously passive actions of Israeli Prime Minister Levi Eshkol. Yitzhak Rabin, the IDF Chief of Staff, supported Eshkol in his surprising restraint. The situation in fact overstressed Rabin, who suffered a nervous collapse that caused him to be replaced by the much more aggressive Major General Ezer Weizman, who had commanded the IDF/AF from 1956 to 1966.  Weizman agreed with Dayan about the crisis they faced, and they, with the commander of the IDF/AF, Brigadier General Mordechai Hod, developed plans for a preemptive strike, which they believed to be the only solution to their dilemma.  As a result of this planning, the IDF/AF began the war on June 5, 1967, with a devastating series of attacks. Ten waves of forty Dassault fighters and fighter-bombers took off in ten-minute intervals, one flight for each of the most important Egyptian airfields. As soon as the bombs were dropped and the ammunition exhausted in strafing runs, the planes returned to be rearmed and refueled at breakneck speed for another