edo, “A well-organized, well-planned, and well-flown air force attack will constitute an offensive that cannot be stopped.” He was killed in just such an attack on Rabaul on January 5, 1943, and was awarded the Medal of Honor posthumously.  The four men strongly believed that precision daylight bombing was feasible to pinpoint attacks on specific high-value targets. During July 1941, at the orders of the Commanding General of the Army Air Forces, they became the Air War Plans Division, and were tasked to come up with a proposal detailing the resources necessary to win the war.  Colonel George and his team created a plan that came to be known as AWPD/1. It called for air operations in defense of the Western Hemisphere, relentless air attacks against Germany, and strategic defense in the Pacific theater.  For the attack on Germany, the planning team listed 154 strate- gic bombing targets, including eighteen aircraft assembly factories, twenty-seven synthetic petroleum plants, fifty electrical generating stations, forty-seven key points in the transportation system, and twelve aluminum and magnesium factories.  Despite the relatively small American aircraft industry, AWPD/1 stated that the USAAF could launch a campaign in less than a year, which was far less than half the time necessary to prepare a con- ventional ground army for war in Europe. The plan postulated that six months of strategic bombing of enemy targets, together with neutralization of the Luftwaffe, submarine and other naval facilities, would render a land campaign unnecessary.    The Growth of Air Power, 1941-43 239  This optimistic assessment reflected ACTS thinking, and it assumed the neutralization of the Luftwaffe would be easier than proved to be the case. But to achieve these objectives, AWPD/1 made extraordinarily accurate calculations for the forces required. It stated that 13,000 medium, heavy, and very heavy bombers would be required worldwide—at a time when there were still only a hand- ful o