day-fight- er force, the process of attrition quickly eliminated less-well-trained and adept pilots. Those who remained became more and more pro- ficient, until they too, in the ordinary course of events, were killed in combat or by an accident.  Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Harris was nicknamed “Bomber” by  True Air Superiority, Then Absolute Air Supremacy, 1944-45 257  the press, to which he was utterly indifferent. His crews nicknamed him “Butcher,” a seemingly awful term, but one they applied in a strange, almost affectionate way, indicating their understanding that he was doing a job that had to be done rather than expressing resentment against him. Harris longed to prove his theory that the Germans could be “de-housed,” that the obliteration of one city after another would do more than just damage German productivi- ty, but would instead bring an end to the war. To him, Berlin was the ultimate target, for it was not only the capital of Germany, it was the symbol of Hitler’s evil government.  Harris launched three attacks against Berlin in August 1943, with a total of 1,719 sorties, using primarily four-engine bombers, and most of these the superb Avro Lancaster. Bomber Command lost 123 aircraft, a 7-percent loss rate. On November 3, he wrote to Winston Churchill, saying: “We can wreck Berlin from end to end if the USAAF will come in on it. It will cost between 400-500 aircraft. It will cost Germany the war.”* The USAAF did not come in on the Battle of Berlin, however, not making its first major raid on the city until March 6, 1944. A decision had been made at Eighth Air Force to minimize deep incursions into Germany, with their inevitable losses, until adequate fighter escort could be provided.  Harris began what he considered to be the formal Battle of Berlin on the night of November 18-19, 1943, and waged it without relax- ation until March 1944. In those four months, Bomber Command flew 20,224 sorties, during which about 2,700 Bomber Command aircraft were l