d not be executed for the Five Factors men- tioned above: reduced budgets, Great Britain’s perception of the threat to its security, advances in aviation technology, its political leaders, and a few of the top leaders in the RAF who followed him. Let us address each of these in turn.  The size of the military budget is absolutely critical to decision making. No matter how cogent and persuasive a philosophy of air power may be, if the air force’s share of the military budget is too small to buy the necessary equipment to execute the philosophy, there is nothing that can be done. During most of the prewar years, the Royal Air Force received about 15 percent of the quite small total military budget.  It is important to note that Trenchard saw to it that the majority of the RAF funds were spent not on a fleet of long-range strategic bombers, but instead on air bases, on training, and on maintaining a logistics base, the latter done primarily by somehow keeping no less than sixteen aircraft manufacturers in business with small contracts. The decision to spend the limited funds in such a manner ruled out fulfilling his philosophy of air power—but it kept the RAF alive. Trenchard was forced to be content to have the RAF equipped with a few squadrons of open-cockpit biplane fighters with fixed landing gear and fixed pitch propellers—in short, slightly improved versions of World War I fighters. His stated view was that fighter defense had to be kept to the smallest possible number.’ Similarly, he retained slow, cumbersome bombers such as the Vickers Virginia, which dif- fered little in appearance or performance from the Handley Page V/1500, one of which had bombed Kabul in May 1919.  Great Britain underwent a significant revision to its perception of the threats to its security during the latter part of Trenchard’s term, and in the following five years. While it is difficult to believe in ret- rospect, France was considered to be the prospective enemy for many years after Wo