ith which to fight the Battle of Britain.  The maturity of the R-plane design and the general disposition of its engines and bomb loads made it easier to fly than the Gothas. This fact was evident in the results obtained in operations on the Eastern and Western Fronts, and against England, where their effect was the greatest.  The R-planes were well equipped for night flying, employing a gyro-compass and a turn and bank indictor, which, with an altime- ter and an airspeed indicator, was just enough to permit safe flight at night or in moderate weather. The R-planes’ first raid over England came in conjunction with twenty-five Gothas on the night of September 28-29, 1917. The R-planes made ten more raids before the bombing of Great Britain was halted in July 1918, drop- ping a total of about 60,000 pounds of bombs, including the largest bomb dropped on England, a 2,200-pounder. They proved to be exceptionally reliable and battleworthy, and, in the raids over Great Britain, suffered no losses in aircraft or personnel to enemy action. The R-planes in fact pointed the way to the future: large aircraft with sufficient range to strike the enemy heartland with an ade- quate supply of bombs. Unfortunately for Germany, but fortunately for the rest of the world, Luftwaffe planners did not understand what the R-planes had taught.  The last great German raid of the war took place on May 19-20, when no less than thirty-eight Gothas, two single-engine aircraft, and three R-planes raided Essex, Southend, Kent, and London. By dropping about 24,000 pounds of bombs, they killed 49, injured 177, and caused $886,585 in property damage.”  Three more daylight reconnaissance raids were made, and then the German bombing ended for another twenty-one years. In all, fifty-two aircraft raids were made against Great Britain. Some 2,772 bombs were dropped, with a weight of 164,821 pounds of explosives.    Fighters and Bombers 117  There were 857 killed, and 2,058 injured, and total property dam-