tive alignment was correct.  Reconnaissance pilots were also tasked for special operations that included landing and picking up agents behind enemy lines at night. Given that the aircraft of the period lacked instruments and interior lighting and that the landings were made without lights on unprepared fields, it was extremely hazardous duty whether or not the enemy was waiting.  It was obvious that military return from reconnaissance was great, but so was its demand for resources, particularly fuel. In addition to the aircraft and their crews, reconnaissance units had to have the usual staff for armament and aircraft maintenance. There also had to be facilities for developing the photographs, analyzing them, and seeing to their proper distribution. The photographic staff was rel- atively large because time was critical; the photos could be worse than useless if they did not arrive at headquarters promptly. An entire science of processing photographs and analyzing them grew up, and it became customary for new photographs to be distributed so widely and so rapidly that they reached down past divisional level to the troops in the field.  Given that the value of reconnaissance became immediately understood at all levels, it is unfathomable that in the peacetime military budgeting process, reconnaissance funds were always among the first to be cut. So it was that much that was learned about reconnaissance had to be relearned not only for World War II, and relearned again for subsequent wars, including Korea. After that point, however, the developments in aircraft and camera were so startling that reconnaissance began to receive more adequate resources even in peacetime.  The Growth of Naval Air Power  The need for reconnaissance was felt even more keenly by naval officers. Eugene Ely had demonstrated flights from a stationary ship in 1910 and to a stationary ship in 1911, the same year that Glenn  70 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Curtiss sold the first milita