Eugene Ely had demonstrated flights from a stationary ship in 1910 and to a stationary ship in 1911, the same year that Glenn  70 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Curtiss sold the first military seaplane to the Navy. Curtiss next vol- unteered to train Navy personnel to fly at no cost—a brilliant first expression of the aeronautic military-industrial complex.  Great Britain and Germany were equally desirous of adding an aviation scouting arm to their fleets, and on May 9, 1912, that great pioneer of English aviation, Commander Charles Rumney Samson, made a takeoff in an amphibious Short S. 38 from the HMS Hibernia, moving at fifteen knots.** (Some sources credit Lieutenant R. Gregory in a Short S. 27. Both men were among the first four selected for pilot training by the Royal Navy.)*  With its massive fleet, the largest in the world, Great Britain began a rapid expansion of its naval air power. On May 13, 1912, the Naval Wing of the Royal Flying Corps was formed; it soon adopted the title of Royal Naval Air Service (RNAS), which was granted recognition as a separate service on July 1, 1914, by which time it had more than a hundred trained pilots and seventy-eight aircraft, including forty land planes, thirty-one seaplanes, and seven airships.  When on April 1, 1918, the Royal Naval Air Service and the Royal Flying Corps (RFC) were combined into the Royal Air Force (RAF), the RNAS had grown to a force of 67,000 officers and men, with 2,949 airplanes and 103 airships.” It had among its many responsi- bilities the air defense of Britain and anti-Zeppelin and anti-subma- rine patrols over vast reaches of the sea.  Because flight from the sea is much more demanding in terms of the aircraft’s performance, its maintenance, and the flying abilities of its crews, tremendous ingenuity was required to meet all of the many missions expected of naval aircraft. Initially, of course, there were no aircraft carriers in the modern sense, but vessels were quickly adapted to c