t as birds soar without beating their wings. They also believed that lightweight engines of sufficient power would be avail- able to power the flying machine. They differed from all other experimenters in two basic beliefs, however, and these were crucial to their success. The first of these was that flying was a three-dimen- sional problem, and that the flying machine should not be inher- ently stable, but should be controlled about all three of its axes by the movement of control surfaces—not by shifting the center of gravity. They also understood that the pilot of a flying machine would have to learn to fly by moving control surfaces to direct his course and altitude, and that this would take much practice.  Many inventors moved from one configuration to another. Chanute, for example, was equally interested in experimenting with his multiple-wing Katydid, his two-surface hang glider, his Lilienthal- type machine or, Edward Huffaker’s bizarre cardboard glider. In contrast, the Wrights preferred to solve one problem at a time, building upon past successes. All of their machines had a deep fam- ily resemblance. As a result, they moved swiftly from a kite in 1899 to a fairly successful glider in 1900. Their 1901 glider was less suc- cessful, and drove them almost to despair, even as it led them to the solutions that would create the highly successful 1902 glider. From there it was but two giant steps—the design and creation of an engine and the propellers—to powered flight in 1903.  The 1903 Wright Flyer is a classic example of designing to a point with economy and finesse. The Wright brothers calculated exactly how much lift would be required to raise the machine and a pilot into the air, and then designed and built wings that would provide that lift—plus a little more as a margin for error. The wings had a span of forty feet four inches and a chord (width) of six feet six inches, providing 510 square feet of wing area. They calculated that they would require an eng