ut the Entreprenant, the battle of Fleurus would have been irredeemably lost. With it, the enemy had no chance for victory.” A neutral observer, British Army    Appendix 397  Major General John Money, a sometime balloonist himself, and hence perhaps prejudiced, published A Short Treatise on the Use of Balloons and Field Observateurs in Military Operations in London in 1803. In this work he stated unequivocally that the Battle of Fleurus had been won because of the balloon observations. Then, in a bit of “what-if” war-gaming, he went on to assert that the British could have kept the colonists in check if England had been able to use bal- loons during the American Revolution. With an eagle eye for the pertinent, Money went on to say that he would not ask “old gener- als” about the value of balloons, for he knew their answer would be negative, just as they had in previous years declined the use of light artillery, field telegraphs, and other advances.  Before looking into the subsequent demand for the services of the Aérostiers, let us first stipulate, for the sake of argument, that the bal- loon did have some effect upon the Battle of Fleurus. In that case, the first application of air power did have influence of importance upon history, for winning the Battle of Fleurus enabled the French to occu- py much of Belgium. This victory made the Taliban-like economic and social repressions of the infamous Robespierre seem both cruel and unnecessary. The immediate result was his overthrow and execution on July 27, 1794. While it is indeed a stretch to say that this early exer- cise of air power by balloon observations at Fleurus was the direct and immediate cause, it is fair to say that it influenced the situation and thus has historic import far beyond being a combat mission.  Jourdan may have been silent in his reports, but he nonetheless called for the balloon to accompany his campaign, serving at the Battles of Liége and Brussels. The result of Jourdan’s campaign was the