were trained by the French tended to go beyond French policy of moderation toward the more aggressive pattern of the British.  The first Jastas were initially equipped with Fokker Eindeckers and a few of the more modern Fokker and Halberstadt biplane fighters, but they came into their own when the Albatros D I became the standard fighter in the fall of 1916, with the first units forming in October. The Germans took some time to learn to use their new aircraft, but the superiority of the Albatros over its Allied opponents was so great that April 1917 became known as “Bloody April” in the RAF. In that single month, 245 British aircraft and 316 British aviators were lost, at a time when the RFC’s strength consist- ed of an average of about 500 operational aircraft and 850 pilots and observers. During the same period, the French lost fifty-five air- craft and sixty-three airmen.*  These figures are all the more remarkable, because during the period of execution, there were only about an average of forty-seven German fighter planes available at any one time. Four of the Jastas—2, 5, 11, and 12—scored 55 percent of the victories. In the same month, seventy-six German aircraft were destroyed, although 196 had been claimed by Allied pilots. (Overclaiming victories is endemic in air combat, never more so than in the claims of bomber gunners in World War II.)  There were many reasons for the margin of German victory. The Albatros was inherently superior to most of the aircraft it faced, partic- ularly two products of the Royal Aircraft Factory, the B.E.2 and FE.2.    84 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  The B.E.2 was a two-seat tractor biplane with a top speed of seventy- five miles per hour, and armed with an almost useless machine gun operated by the observer, who sat in the front seat, directly under the wing. The B.E.2 was designed to be inherently stable, and hence was inherently unmaneuverable. The F-E.2 was a two-seater pusher with a single forward-firing machin