ccess of the offensive would not be bombers, but fighters. From Douhet'’s time on, leaders in every air force, and their political bosses, had believed that the bomber would dictate the course of battle. In the bloody skies over Europe, there was proven, late in the game, a rule that still stands today: There must be fighters in order to win air superiority. Once that goal is achieved, the bombers can bomb without restraint. This lesson, so hard learned in World War IL, has been forgotten again and again, not so much by the military as by the legislatures that control military funding.  The year 1943 was a disappointing one for the Eighth Air Force, even as it grew in strength and capability. Losses began to average as much as 8 percent per mission, which meant that the average crew member statistically had no chance to complete the specified twenty- five missions required before being sent home. Despite feverish efforts to build up the Eighth in size, its strength was constantly siphoned off for other missions, including the campaigns in North Africa.    The Growth of Air Power, 1941-43 241  A relentless barrage of criticism came from Washington on the performance of the Eighth Air Force. President Franklin D. Roosevelt, the Chief of Staff, General George C. Marshall, and the Commanding General of the United States Army Air Forces, General Henry (“Hap”) Arnold, all complained that not enough missions were being flown and that insufficient damage was being done to the Germans. At one point they complained not only about the high casualties, but also about the number of crews landing damaged aircraft in Sweden or Switzerland.  One telling reason for the complaints was that the aerial campaign was a political sop to Joseph Stalin, the only substitute available for the second front that he demanded. The Soviet Union had borne the brunt of the fighting since June 22, 1941. Stalin pointed out this fact on every occasion, and sometimes hinted that unless a second front we