rritory intimately. The Italian leaders were astute enough to capitalize effectively upon the differences among the tribes, which in Marshal Emilio de Bono’s estimate kept an additional 200,000 warriors from the battlefield. In addition, the Italians made extensive use of modern equipment to develop their logistic base so that the troops in the field could be supported adequately.  The war permitted the Regia Aeronautica to distinguish itself, becoming a decisive factor in all operations. Although the Italian aircraft were generally obsolete by contemporary European stan- dards, they were more than adequate for the reconnaissance, com- munications, and attack missions in which they engaged. The Italian forces were particularly adept in harassing fleeing enemy troops, but one of their most original actions was the aerial resupply of corps- size units, the first time this process had been accomplished.  Unfortunately, the Regia Aeronautica distinguished itself in anoth- er area, one that received worldwide condemnation: the use of poison gas against Ethiopian soldiers and civilians. Mussolini had authorized the use of gas prior to the invasion, and the Ethiopians claimed that mustard gas was employed on at least twenty occasions. In one of them, a battle in the Tigray area, the massive use of gas averted an imminent Ethiopian victory. The actual effectiveness of the gas has been the sub- ject of great debate, but it undoubtedly destroyed Ethiopian morale and the will of poorly trained troops to resist. It also reinforced the general European dread of a mass air attack upon principal cities.  The image of Italian Air Force gallantry was not enhanced when Bruno Mussolini wrote a newspaper article in which he described Ethiopian cavalry units “bursting open like a rose” when bombed, events which he also described as “most amusing.”  If the rest of the world was not impressed by the actions of the    Air Power and Its Influence Between the Wars 187  Regia Aeronautica, giv