COVERER XIV succeeded in exposing twenty pounds of film over the Soviet Union. The capsule was ejected from the satellite and    The Cold War, 1945-62 309  picked up in midair by a USAF Fairchild C-119, flying at 8,500 feet over the Pacific Ocean.  In its first successful mission, the CORONA satellite in seventeen orbits photographed more of the Soviet Union than had been obtained by all of the U-2 overflights. The film, while lacking the resolution of U-2 photos, revealed sixty-four new airfields and twen- ty-six new surface-to-air missile sites, along with invaluable targeting information for the Strategic Air Command.  Four of the next five CORONA launches failed, but in 1961, seven out of eleven missions were successful to a degree beyond the wildest hopes of anyone in the CIA or the Air Force. It was as if the Cold War were a poker game, and a big mirror had just been installed behind the Soviet Union, revealing all its cards. The full results of the CORONA program were not revealed until the 1990s.  The equipment on board CORONA satellites was continually improved, and specialized satellites were introduced to provide data sought for particular purposes. The 145th and final CORONA launch took place on May 25, 1972, and six days later, two reentry vehicles carrying 160 pounds of film were recovered. The resolution was such that a print seven feet wide and one hundred feet long was sharp from end to end. CORONA had furnished photographic coverage of 750 million nautical square miles of the earth’s surface.  In the early years of the Cold War, the United States had been continually surprised by Soviet developments, from the appearance of new and formidable jets over the annual Moscow air show to the successive detonations of atomic and thermonuclear bombs to the stunning success of Sputnik. An overwhelming fear had grown of Soviet capability in bombers and ICBMs, fears that had to be responded to in the United States’ defense budget.  These fears were partly disp