he dreams of any previous aviation prophet or practitioner.    306 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  The new technologies would also present enormous challenges for those who wished to articulate the air-power doctrines and philoso- phies of the future, for changes and improvements in equipment now began to occur so rapidly that it was difficult to keep a theory of air power current.  Satellites for gathering intelligence were the first step in this inva- sion of space. Great galaxies of satellite systems, for communication, meteorology, and navigation, followed. The new systems were com- plementary and revolutionized air power (among many other things). They would also change the ways wars could be fought. And because the computer revolution was occurring simultaneously, it became possible to integrate the information supplied by all of these systems in ground and airborne platforms from which both air and ground battles could be controlled.  Intelligence Gathering and the Space Age  The United States had been far more successful in gathering information on Japan during World War II than it had been in gath- ering information on the Soviet Union. It had virtually no clandes- tine intelligence (although the Soviet Union maintained an aggres- sive and successful clandestine campaign against the United States), and the information from the occasional defector was usually either stale or incorrect.  For the first time since 1812, a foreign power seemed to have the wherewithal to launch a direct attack on the United States. It there- fore became absolutely necessary to create a photoreconnaissance aircraft that could fly over the Soviet Union and determine if an attack was being prepared, an extremely dangerous mission that could be viewed by the Soviets as an act of war. They were very con- scious that the Germans had conducted such reconnaissance flights before their June 22, 1941, invasion.  Acutely aware of the danger, USAF Major John Seaberg, working at Wrig