ething for American morale, and called for a strike on Japan.  The result was the April 18, 1942, attack of sixteen North American B-25s. Led by then-Lieutenant Colonel Jimmy Doolittle, the twin-engine Army aircraft took off from the carrier Hornet and struck targets in Kobe, Osaka, Nagoya, Tokyo, and Yokohama. The physical damage was minimal, for the planes carried only three 500- pound high-explosive bombs and one 500-pound incendiary cluster. All of the aircraft were subsequently lost. Three crewmen died in crashes, and the Japanese captured eight in China. Of these, three were summarily executed as “examples,” and a fourth died in prison.  The raid had the desired effect upon American morale—it was the first good news in the entire war, and Doolittle and his surviving crew members were celebrated.  The damage was so light and the news media so well controlled that the raid had little effect upon the morale of the Japanese peo- ple. It did have great effect upon the Japanese Imperial High Command, which felt it had lost face. Admiral Yamamoto recog- nized that while it was probably a one-of-a-kind raid, it did mean that the American carrier force was an entity to be recognized, and he therefore felt impelled to lure the American fleet into a decisive battle at Midway. He felt so strongly about this need that when faced with opposition by both his Navy staff and the Japanese Army, he threatened to resign. His opposition gave in, allowing him to make the second of his great mistakes. The third and fourth would follow shortly in the massive plan he created for the battle.  The May 4-8, 1942, Battle of the Coral Sea was the first ever fought entirely by air power and in which the opposing fleets never came in sight of each other.  The battle would be fought with surprisingly few aircraft on each side, and without the ability on either side to secure air superiority. Intending to invade Port Moresby on the south coast of New Guinea, the Japanese introduced about 150 l