ay so, but the demand caused additional delays for the already change-plagued Junkers Ju 88 and the ill-fated Heinkel He 177.  Timing and technology are everything for air forces, and the Luftwaffe’s initial technology was excellent, resulting in Germany’s going to war in 1939 with the most modern and efficient air force  160 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  in the world. (German technology was lacking only in engine devel- opment, and it compensated for this lack in part by building larger displacement engines, which, although heavier, generated ade- quate horsepower.) The mismanagement by Goering, Udet, and a later Chief of Staff, Generaloberst Hans Jeschonnek, forced the Luftwaffe to fight till the end equipped for the most part with its first generation of war planes—and far too few of them.  France  Traumatized by World War I, France could draw few inferences about air power from its victory. Instead it attempted to respond to all challenges in what one author has called a “reactive doctrine”” even as it remained totally subordinate to its Army. France had attempted some strategic bombing during the war, but had deemed it to be a failure. Air power was seen as an integral part of the doc- trine of defensive warfare to which French generals, almost without exception, clung. The Five Factors of air power have unusual appli- cation when considering France  Like that of all nations, the French military budget was severely reduced, and its air forces had shrunk from almost four thousand front-line aircraft in 1918 to about eight hundred in 1920. The effect of the reduced budget was amplified because France was beset by bureaucratic and political problems that inhibited any focus on a French doctrine of air power. One of the great difficulties was that a French Air Ministry did not exist until 1928, and that the French Air Force—the Armée de |’Air—was not formed until 1934.”  French airmen were aware of Douhet’s Command of the Airand used it to campaign for a