d there pur- chased aircraft to equip its newly formed air units in the Greek Army  40 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  and Navy. The Army Aviation Unit was ready for action on October 12, 1912, conducting reconnaissance operations.  Serbia had purchased two German observation balloons in 1909, and in 1912 had sent six people to France for pilot training and to purchase eleven aircraft. Major (later General) Joseph Barés sent two additional French aircraft to Serbia as a goodwill gesture. The Serbia Aviation Command was formed on December 24, 1912, and began conducting operations in March 1913.  The third member of the Balkan League, Bulgaria, had not made formal efforts to obtain training, but instead used French aircraft and French and Russian pilots as mercenaries to do reconnaissance and bombing.  Turkey had established a balloon unit by 1911, and also sent offi- cers to France in 1911 for training. With greater resources than the other three combatant nations, Turkey purchased more than a score of aircraft from France, Great Britain, and Germany, using them, as the others did, primarily for reconnaissance, but also for bombing. The reconnaissance mission was by far the most fruitful, for there were as yet no bomb sights, and few targets that were bombed were hit. Those that were suffered only minor damage because the bombs were so small.  Although the air efforts in the first Balkan War were relatively small, they accurately forecast what might develop on a larger scale in a conflict between major countries, and had a strong effect on the thinking of military leaders in the great European powers and in Russia. This influence was reflected in military budgets and in the surprising growth in the aviation industry in the years prior to 1914.  The Western Hemisphere also saw the application of air power. In 1911, a Native-American pilot, Hector Worden, a Cherokee Indian, was commissioned a captain in the Mexican Army to fly reconnais- sance and bombing miss