th in intensity and duration.  When defense spending declines at a time when military operations expand so dramatically, military leaders are forced to continuously trade-off considerations on force structure, personnel, adding new equipment and research and development. The evidence is that these trade-offs have been made judiciously for the past twenty years, although there are some implicit hazards that will be covered later.  The weapon systems employed in Operation Iraqi Freedom were immensely superior to those used in the 1991 Gulf War. The American acquisition process may not be perfect, but compared with other armed forces in the world, and compared with other huge organizations, from the United Nations to the Ford Motor Company to the Catholic Church, the United States military has  Iraq: Air and Space Power 375  made many correct decisions that helped raise the nation beyond superpower status. In brief, the American military on the whole buys the right things and what it buys, works.  The increase in the power and capability is so great that no nation in the world, including our staunch ally, the United Kingdom, has the wherewithal to keep up to the same standard. Many nations, despite fielding relatively modern equipment, are so far behind the U.S. standards that their armies, navies and air forces are not interoperable with those of the United States.  The newly demonstrated power of the United States will enable that nation to continue doing good for the world. Never in history has a powerful nation been so altruistic as the United States. To paraphrase Secretary of State Colin Powell, the only land we ever sought from others was enough to bury the men who died in saving their country.  The United States may be able to begin a badly needed economic revolution for the Islamic states. Currently sunk in poverty, the Muslim states have to reorient themselves to the creation of jobs and the advantages of a consumer society, and to turn away from the blind ha