sonnel and special wagons for handling equip- ment and the generation of hydrogen. The times were stressful, and Whipple lacked the patience to ensure that the inflated balloons were assigned to the custody of officers who would transport them with the care they required. He also failed to understand that the balloons were subject to wind and weather restrictions that did not affect more familiar weaponry.  The end result was that Wise, despite his best efforts, was not given the assistance needed to use the balloons effectively, and as a result, failed in his attempts to support Union troops. It is a shame, for had he been able to control events, it is probable that he could have been in position at the infamous Battle of Bull Run on July 21, 1861. Instead, a combination of a delay in orders and inadequate transport resulted in the destruction of the balloon before it reached the front and after the Confederates had scored a victory.  It is difficult to resist the temptation to play “what if” with great battles, and the influence of air power might have been established for all time if Wise had been available on the twenty-first at 3:00 P.M. It was then that victory seemed within the grasp of Union Brigadier    406 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  General Irvin McDowell, who was roughly handling the outnum- bered troops of his opponent, General Pierre Beauregard. McDowell had, with great foresight, posted troops to prevent Beauregard’s being reinforced by eight thousand troops from the Shenandoah Valley, under the command of Brigadier General Joseph Johnston. Johnston was one of the best of the Confederate generals, and he infiltrated his troops past McDowell’s blockade. If Wise had been airborne, he might have observed Johnston’s troops bypassing the Union holding force, and warned McDowell. The Union commander could then have changed his dispositions enough to hold off the combined Beauregard/Johnston attack and win the day. If he had, he might have broug