qual to the Army and the Navy, he had to place the bomber role first. Eventually he would claim that air power alone could defeat an enemy by destroying its vital centers. His fol- lowers ardently believed this claim, and developed aircraft such as the Boeing B-17 and equipment such as the Norden bombsight to give them a chance to execute Mitchell’s ideas when war came.  While many of Mitchell’s ideas derived from Trenchard and Douhet originally, and later also from his staff, he was able to do more than just articulate those ideas. He successfully campaigned them, even at the ultimate cost of his own career. Mitchell was unique among air-power philosophers in two ways. First, he was able publicly to demonstrate his ideas by means of the battleship-bombing experi- ments. Second, he so inspired his able subordinates that they were able to survive the black marks of their association with Mitchell to rise to the top ranks of leadership. Once established, they made Mitchell’s ideas their doctrine and did their best to implement them during World War II. Circumstances did not allow a complete success in these efforts until the necessary technology arrived in 1944 and 1945 in the form of the B-29 and the atom bomb, respectively.  The Five Factors also applied to Mitchell and his philosophy, but some outside events influenced them. While budgets were small, Mitchell still chose to devote a great deal of money to research and development at McCook Field, and later, the Wright Field laborato- ries. The scope of this effort was remarkable, for it included advanced airframes, engines, cabin pressurization, flight instru- ments, self-sealing tanks, new methods of construction, in-flight refueling, navigation instruments, improved radios, improved fuels, autopilots, and, perhaps most important of all, the supercharger, which was to be the key to American fighter and bomber success in World War II. Moreover, Mitchell’s dedication in research was passed on to General Henry H. (“H