ight- er escorts for only the route to and from Aachen. From that point on the Eighth’s bombers were escorted only by the Luftwaffe, which shot down 60 out of the 229 aircraft in the attacking force, a hor- rendous 26.5-percent loss rate. Another seventeen B-17s were scrapped after return to the United Kingdom, and 121 more were    The Growth of Air Power, 1941-43 245  damaged. Neither the Eighth nor any other air force could sustain such losses, and the Luftwaffe had achieved daylight air superiority. Fighters had unquestionably prevailed against bombers, which were not invincible. They did, in fact, always get through, but at an unbearable cost.  Bomber Command’s Grueling Night Battle against the Luftwaffe  Early daytime raids had convinced the Royal Air Force Bomber Command that it was impossible to conduct daytime strategic raids against Germany. It shifted immediately to night raids, and for a period of time sincerely believed that those raids were severely dam- aging the German capacity to wage war.  The German Ruhr became a particularly attractive target, not least because the steel mills and armament factories were relatively easy to find, and were well within the bomb range of British aircraft. Unfortunately, equipment and training of the Bomber Command crews was not adequate to strike accurately, with as few as one-third of attacking forces ever getting within five miles of the intended tar- get. Despite this situation, Britain had no other means of attacking Germany, and first priority was given to the production of heavy bombers, including the Short Stirling, Handley Page Halifax, and Avro Lancaster. The Chief of Staff of the Royal Air Force, the admirable Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Portal, had once headed Bomber Command himself, and he now endorsed a report which stated that with a force of four thousand heavy bombers, Germany could be driven out of the war in six months. This report did not promise an early end to the war, however, for there were cu