ioning System/inertially-guided JDAMs (Joint Direct Attack Munition) on a single mission.  Despite the weather, fourteen hundred strike missions were flown, with the major targets remaining the same: Republican Guard divisions, key command and control facilities and surface-to- surface missile facilities. The venerable Boeing B-52 continued to perform operations from its deployed base.  Despite the sandstorms, any Iraqi vehicle that was detected was immediately identified by the Joint STARS Moving Target Indicator (MTI) systems and its geographic coordinates determined by GPS. Once identified and located, it was destroyed by precision-guided munitions from a coalition aircraft. In a brilliant example of “effects-based operations”, the coalition did not resort to blowing up bridges, but instead destroyed troops on the move.  FT'EA: Find, Fix, Track, Target, Engage, Assess  A new and important feature of the war was the development of a target cycle concept that the USAF Chief of Staff, General John P. Jumper has termed “Find, Fix, Track, Target, Engage, Assess (F'T°EA),” and is more colorfully known as the “kill chain.” Jumper knows that the armed services of the United States have the ability to find targets anywhere in the world, fix them in a database, track them as necessary, designate them as a target, engage them with the appropriate weapon at the appropriate time, then assess the damage done to the target—all in a very compressed period of time. They should also have a similar (if even swifter capacity) to do the same to targets that emerge suddenly from hiding.  Three elements of the equation, F* and T (Find, Fix and Track), have been operational for years. They are provided by the following systems: Boeing E-3C Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS): Northrop Grumman E-8C Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS); Lockheed Martin EP-3; Beech    Iraq: Air and Space Power 377  RC-12 Guardrail; Boeing RC-135 Rivet Joint; General Atomics A