uld never be corroborated about an aircraft of dubious strength and lift that had one mysterious engine for ground run, and another mys- terious engine for flight.  Other than Lilienthal’s efforts, with their useful, if flawed data tables, only one lasting contribution to aviation was made by all of these experimenters, the two-surface (biplane) glider of Chanute. Nothing useful to aviation was ever developed from any of the other efforts of these experimenters who, despite all claims, were never in any way meaningful competitors to the Wright brothers. And it must be remembered that these were the most credible of the Wrights’ competitors. There were many others who were simply laughable poseurs who wished to sell stock to a gullible public. Still others were sincere eccentrics, totally incapable of creating a flying machine, but still able to garner publicity.  Yet having said this, it should be stated emphatically that all of these men, from Ader to Whitehead and including the poseurs and eccentrics, should be applauded for the attempts they made, for they contributed to the spirit of the age, and made the world con- scious of the possibility of flight.  The two brothers from Dayton were smart enough to recognize just how far ahead of the pack they were. They knew how dif- ficult were the problems that they had solved, and how often that    Fledgling Wings 29  a solution came by a chance insight that might under other cir- cumstances never have occurred, and would probably never occur again. Their experience told them that others, less systematic than they, and perhaps less gifted as well, would take years to cover the same ground.  The Wrights’ approach was simple. They believed that previous experimenters had proved that a fixed-wing flying machine could glide, just as birds soar without beating their wings. They also believed that lightweight engines of sufficient power would be avail- able to power the flying machine. They differed from all other experimenter