national psychology during the interwar period. The French and British leaders were mesmerized by the possibility of a devas- tating German air attack on their principal cities and, like rabbits facing a python, they simply remained quiet and awaited the inevitable.  The Phony War  In the fine book The Forgotten Air Force: French Air Doctrine in the 1930s, author Anthony Christopher Cain makes the point that the French had, with the best intentions in the world, created a doc- trine of reactive air power, in which they attempted to counter every imaginable security challenge.’ French doctrine called for its air arm to conduct every strategic, operational, and tactical task, from strategic bombing to colonial operations. Given the constrained budgets of the time, which limited production and training, the French Air Force could in consequence do none of them well.  The only thing not lacking in the French Air Force was plans for production and for organization. Of these there was a superfluity, and no less than five production plans and five reorganizations were put forward between 1934 and 1939. A sixth and superseding reor- ganization came just before the outbreak of the war, with the air force divided into three air armies adapted to the organization of the ground command.’ The excessively centralized organization in effect placed the air force almost entirely at the disposition of indi- vidual army commanders, much in the manner of the French armored forces. Incredibly, the French Air Force administration had been reorganized so frequently that in its last iteration it was based upon the 1870 Bouchard report on how to organize an army."  When France and Britain declared war on Germany on September 3,  200 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  the French First Army, facing Germany, had only 138 Morane- Saulnier M.S. 406 and 94 American Curtiss Hawk H-75 single-seat fighters at its disposal. These were augmented by thirty-seven of the handsome but vulnerable mul