o of at least three to one. During Operation Iraqi Freedom, that ratio was reversed to about one to two. This seemed to defy the doctrine enunciated by Colin Powell, part of which stated that force was always to be employed in overwhelming strength. Far fewer personnel were in used in OIF than were employed in 1991, yet their amazing use of advanced technology made them an overwhelming force of another kind.  Another vital use of air and information dominance was the ability to employ large numbers of special operations forces (SOF) within Iraq well before the war. They continued to operate through the war and still do to this day, operating alone, or in concert with military units. These SOF actions, combined with brilliant target selection and expert bombing execution by means of laser-guided and other precision devices, provided an entirely new method of battlefield preparation.  There was no need this time for the forty-three days of bombing required by Operation Desert Storm. Instead, aerial attacks were conducted with incredible precision and economy. This permitted the relatively small Army and Marine forces (the famous “boots on the ground” element) to seize critical points before the Iraqis were even aware that they were in danger. As a result, the Iraqis were kept constantly off balance, always several days and several miles behind their opponents.  The air war was conducted on two levels, one of which was the precisely executed bombing of carefully selected targets in Baghdad. This was well recorded and commentated on by the media, particularly that of the Arab world. The other level was the relentlessly savage hammering of Iraqi ground forces wherever they were found, far away from any television camera. This relatively anonymous part of the air war worked to the disadvantage of the coalition air forces in terms of recognition for their accomplishments.  Iraq: Air and Space Power 371  The situation was far different with the ground forces, where embedded