hon, launched on September 15, 1950. As Commander in Chief of the UN forces, MacArthur insisted on a risky flank attack that was perilous in the extreme, but which went off very well.  Carried away by his success, MacArthur ordered that the victorious UN forces drive the North Koreans all the way back to the Yalu River on their northern border with Red China. It was a disastrous mistake, compounded by MacArthur’s failure to heed China’s clear warnings that it would intervene unless the northward advance was halted.  The intervention came in November, with overwhelming effect, and, as noted above, once again almost pushed the UN into the sea. The Chinese assault was highlighted by the introduction of the top jet fighter of the Soviet Union, the swept-wing MiG-15. Flown by Soviet pilots, it immediately altered the air war, and forced the United States to respond with its own premier fighter, the North American F-86 Sabre. Flights of the two aircraft engaged in swirling dogfights over the triangle of land surrounding the Yalu River and called MiG Alley by American pilots.    The Cold War, 1945-62 295  In considering Korea, the aviation world’s attention became (and has largely remained) fixed on the contest between Sabre and MiG, for it recaptured in part the glamour and the color of the dogfights of earlier times. Air superiority was still the sine qua non of air power, and the Sabres were able to maintain it although greatly outnumbered and fighting at an immense geographical disadvantage. (The Communist pilots could take off and land from air bases in the Chinese sanctuary for which the Yalu River marked the border. Most combat was con- ducted within gliding distances of those bases, while the F-86s had to fly all the way up the peninsula from bases in South Korea.) As a direct result of this air superiority, the remainder of the UN air forces could interdict Chinese Communist supplies and furnish close air support, thus equalizing the great difference in the number