y-one proceeded at twelve thousand feet hoping to reach London. Bad weather intervened, and they instead bombed Folkestone and the nearby Shorncliffe army camp as targets of opportunity, dropping their bombs at about 6:00 P.M.  In a single raid, the Gothas did more damage than the Zeppelins. Ninety-five people were killed and 185 injured, with about $100,000 damage being done. But even more troubling to the British than the casualties was the insolent manner in which the twenty Gothas parad- ed over England, disregarding antiaircraft artillery (AAA) and the seventy-seven aircraft that were dispatched to intercept them. (Field Marshal Lord French had long since withdrawn his sanction against the use of AAA.) Interception was just about impossible, as the B.E.2 and B.E.12 aircraft had such low rates of climb that they could not reach the intruders by the time they had finished their business and departed—a problem that would persist until the advent of radar. Three aircraft which happened to be at altitude when the raid took place did engage the enemy, and all three claimed victories. The Germans admitted to one loss in combat, and to another crash.  The morale of the British public, just beginning to recover from the Zeppelin attacks, was now assaulted by what was obviously a vast- ly more efficient weapon. People were incensed at what they con- sidered a barbarous intrusion on civilian life, and inquests of the vic- tims often returned the verdict of “willful murder,” indicting the Kaiser and the Crown Prince.  Although concerned that he might have lost the advantage of sur- prise, Brandenburg returned on June 5, leading twenty-two Gothas to the attack. There were two targets, the munitions factories at Shoeburyness on the north shore of the Thames, and the Admiralty docks five miles to the south at Sheerness. Brandenburg was unaware that despite the haze, crowds of pleasure seekers were at the beach, enthusiastically soaking up the unaccustomed sixty- degree temper