alin. Stalin called forth the very best efforts from people under his command, and, initially, rewarded those who did well with promotions and privilege. Doing well, how- ever, carried with it the hazard of being seen as a popular figure. Stalin did not tolerate any popular figures other than himself, and unhesitatingly removed them by assassination or by trials in which coerced confessions of treason would earn a death penalty.  This was the fate of many men who might have made a difference in the history of World War II had they been allowed to live and carry out their ideas. The Soviet Union possessed some first-rate thinkers who were also doers, men who would have been outstanding in any air force in the world. They included, among others, Generals Yakov Alksnis, Yakov Smushkevich, Mikhail Frunze, and Marshal Mikhail Tukhachevski, all of whom merit mention here, for had their ideas been followed, a German invasion of the Soviet Union might well have been avoided, or if begun, immediately defeated.  General Frunze was Chief of Staff of the Red Army and became a commissar for national defense. He argued that a massive industri- al base was the first step in acquiring an air force, and that the  164 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  armed forces should be mobile, fast, and powerful. After Frunze was assassinated on Stalin’s orders in 1925, he was succeeded by Marshal Tukachevski, who was the author of the concept of “deep battle” in which mobile forces were to break through enemy lines in the man- ner adopted by the Germans. Tukachevski developed the world’s first airborne forces,” whose often filmed operations inspired imitators in Germany and the United States. A versatile man, he also created the Red Army’s first mechanized units. Stalin deeply distrusted him because of his previous association with the Czarist army, and readily accepted intelligence planted by the Germans that Tukachevski was a spy. He was arrested, tried for espionage, and executed in 1