had been to provoke a war. The United States had not only developed a massive fleet of Boeing B-29 aircraft, surpassing anything the Japanese could build, they had deployed it halfway around the world, equipping it with precision radar, magnificent bombsights, and these devilishly capable incendiary bombs for use against tar- gets which were intrinsically flammable. In contrast, the Japanese lacked antiaircraft guns, radar, night-fighters, an adequate fire-fight- ing force, hospitals, and bomb shelters. Perhaps the most pathetic inequity could be found in the scale and size of the reprisal Japanese air offensive against the United States—small bombs dropped from a tiny submarine-launched aircraft, and a handful of explosive-laden paper balloons, set loose to drift on air currents across the Pacific to land in the forests of the American West.  XXI Bomber Command’s first night raid on Tokyo induced a gigantic firestorm that swept the city, destroying 261,171 buildings and killing more than 83,000 people. Another 160,000 received injuries. The Japanese defense had been weak; some forty aircraft suc- ceeded in making interceptions, but had little effect. Fourteen B-29s were destroyed, but only two by enemy action, the figures reflecting both the weak Japanese defenses and the intrinsic hazard of the still not fully developed B-29s.  At this point all of the theories of the airpower philosophers  278 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  broke down. The Tokyo firestorm—and the implicit threat to all Japanese cities—was a horror greater than anything that even H. G. Wells might have penned, but the populace, though stricken with the enormity of the tragedy, did not rise up, nor did the Japanese government even remotely consider surrender. Instead, blinded by the unthinking and completely artificial martial spirit that had held it captive on every battlefield since Guadalcanal, the government vowed to fight on, promising to repel any invasion by the self-sacri- fice of