ile industry from which McNamara came, but was totally inappropriate for conducting a war against a formidable enemy. Ironically, the North Vietnamese leaders had incisive insight into American culture and psychology, and indeed, correctly believed that they would win their war, not by mili- tary force of arms (they were in fact continually defeated in the field) but by the waning of support by the American public.  Nonetheless, such was McNamara’s influence that he was able to persuade both Presidents Kennedy and Johnson to fight the war as an insurrection and thus abandon traditional military strategy. He agreed with General Maxwell Taylor that while the air war against North Vietnam was to be limited, an ever-increasing number of United States Army troops would be brought in to fight a land cam- paign. This, despite later innovations in the use of airmobile troops, was a “traditional war.”  When after seven years and thousands of casualties it became apparent to all that the war could not be won in the manner in which it was being fought, McNamara advocated abandoning South Vietnam to its own fate. He had his own personal “bug out” when he left the government on February 29, 1968, to head the World Bank. Years later his best-selling autobiography would reveal that he had believed all along that the war could not be won. (Struck by the cynicism of a man who would make money writing about losing a war for which he bore substantial responsibility, some suggested that profits from the book be given to organizations supporting Vietnam veterans. McNamara declined.)  The most bizarre aspect of the war being run by politicians was the way the bombing was conducted. At Tuesday afternoon meetings in the White House, the president and McNamara would decide on tar- gets and perhaps on the weight of bomb loads and the munitions to be used. The fact that they were twelve thousand miles from the scene of the action, and that their orders had to pass through numerous headquarter