e inadequate for the demands placed on them.  Lessons to be Learned by the Public and by Congress  But the armed services are not the only agencies that can learn lessons from Operation Iraqi Freedom. The American public and the American Congress should learn that previous investments in the defense of the United States have paid off handsomely, and that cuts, particularly in such critical areas as the gathering of “humint”—    Iraq: Air and Space Power 381  human intelligence—were costly, making the United States vulnerable to the terror attacks of September 11, 2001.  The Congress and the public must also recognize that we are engaged in a global war against terrorism. The only way to win this war is to maintain the same degree of advantage that we enjoyed in Iraq over all our future enemies. To do so will require us to invest in our future defenses at a rate higher than has been the case for almost all of the two previous decades. The increase has to be a significantly higher percentage of gross domestic product than is currently being spent (about 3.4 percent). It may need to rise to as much as 7 percent by 2008. After being sustained at that rate for a few years, the costs could easily drop back down to the 3-4 percent range—given that China or a revived Russia does not emerge as a potential foe.  The increase is necessary not only for new equipment. The United States has to increase the total number of regular service personnel, particularly for such elite branches as the Special Forces, SEALS, Rangers, Air Force Special Operations and so on.  Too many Guardsmen and Reservists have been called to duty too often for too long. The entire concept of a Reserve or National Guard force is impractical if the components of those forces are required to be constantly or even repeatedly on duty.  Conclusion  Operation Iraqi Freedom was a brilliant military success, accomplished in spite of a series of what were either diplomatic disasters or simple foreign intransigence,