t five-pound) bombs on Paris, along with a cheeky note stating that “The German Army is at the gates of Paris. You have nothing left but to surrender. Lieutenant von Hiddesen.”” (As has been so often the case, the observer’s name is lost to history. Observers, navigators, and bombardiers, though perhaps the most vital members of any air crew, have most often been treated shabbi- ly by their pilots, their service, and the general public.)  The dark side of von Hiddesen’s bombing was that an innocent woman was killed, the first of five hundred to die during World War I from either aerial bombardment or the shells of (the erroneously named) “Big Bertha,” the huge long-range cannons used to harass Paris. Other aircraft followed von Hiddesen (who was shot down over Verdun the following year), and a few dozen more small bombs were dropped on the City of Lights by what became termed “the five-o’clock Taube.”  This off-hand and ironic reference is more important than it    100 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  looks, for it was an indicator that urban populations could adapt to the threat of aerial bombardment. What should have been a wel- come, if grisly, fact of life, the ability of civilian populations to endure bombing, was ignored as a matter of policy by air-power advocates and by political leaders in the post-World War I period. As a result, the threat of bombing would assume ridiculous propor- tions in relation to the danger it really represented.  It should be mentioned here that while the original Taube was built by the Etrich firm, it was also built under license by Rumpler and others. In addition, there were other aircraft of roughly similar birdlike configuration that were called “Taube” so that it became a generic term for German aircraft early in the war. The average British citizen reportedly pronounced it “Torb.”  Bombing and the National Psyches  The bombing campaigns of World War I were limited compared to those of one war later, yet so much happen