pital ships or submarines, and a 100,000-man army intended only to maintain internal order. Although the treaty did render Germany impotent for years, it did not stop surreptitious research and development in aircraft, tanks, and submarines. It also had several unintended con- sequences. The 100,000-man internal security force became an army of the elite, with only the ablest officers and noncommis- sioned officers being retained, and with provisions for cycling through good candidates to form a superb reserve. When Germany began to rearm (secretly under the Weimar Republic, more openly after Adolf Hitler became chancellor), it was forced to rearm with modern weapons. And, most important to all, the Army leaders were determined to use these weapons in ways never seen during World War I. The Schlachstaffeln and storm trooper combination of World War I was the direct ancestor of the dive-bomber and panzer combination of World War II upon which Germany had made its plans and with which it achieved its greatest victories.  The Allies were faced with the reverse situation. France maintained a huge army, staffed by senior officers of increasingly advanced age as the years passed; when World War II broke out, its Commander in Chief, General Maurice Georges Gamelin, was sixty-seven years old. It retained all of its World War I equipment, and most of all, it retained its World War I mentality. It was much the same in Great Britain, which continued to rely upon a battleship navy while oper- ating under the notorious “ten year rule” for military appropriations. This concept, which surprisingly was first enunciated by Winston    Fighters and Bombers 89  Churchill, stipulated that planners should look ten years into the future to see if a war was probable. If no war seemed probable in the next ten years, defense expenditures could be cut.  As a result, the Royal Air Force was hopelessly obsolete by 1938, when it became apparent that war was perhaps only one—and not ten—years awa