the long-range fighter, which hammered the Luftwaffe into virtual impotence. Many of the later bomber missions were flown without seeing a single enemy fighter.  The full extent of that air superiority was revealed on D-Day— the invasion of Europe—when General Eisenhower promised his    True Air Superiority, Then Absolute Air Supremacy, 1944-45 267  troops that any aircraft they saw would be friendly. He was almost com- pletely correct, although the Germans made a few hundred sorties. In contrast, between June 6 and September 1, 1944, the Allied air forces flew almost 500,000 sorties, in which 4,100 aircraft were lost, mostly to ground fire and to accidents. The Luftwaffe was unable to respond, and most of the aircraft that had been flown in to bases in France specifical- ly to repel the invasion were destroyed en route or after landing.  The German forces awaiting the invasion had been positioned according to the concepts of Field Marshal Gerd von Rundstedt—a relatively thin line of troops in the West Wall, with reserves, partic- ularly armor, held back to be committed only when the “main inva- sion” took place. Field Marshal Erwin Rommel held the opposite view; having experienced the effects of Allied air power firsthand in North Africa, he wanted the entire German force to be as close to the front as possible, for he warned that moving them forward would prove impossible. Hitler agreed with von Runstedt, and, as usual, reserved to himself the right to release the forces. Although Hitler had intuitively predicted that Normandy would be the inva- sion spot, an elaborate Allied spoof convinced him that the main attack was intended for the Pas de Calais area.  Rommel proved to be correct. The landing at Normandy was the only Allied invasion point, and when Hitler at last committed his armored forces, the Allied fighter-bombers tore them to bits. Reinforcements could travel only at night, and with these delays, Germany’s sole opportunity to repel the invasion was lost