remarkable misunderstanding in which German politicians would use the British perception of the effectiveness of bombing against both Great Britain and France—and French and British politicians would help them do it.  Chapter Four  Growth of Air-Power Theory  As rapid as the buildup of the air forces of the combatant coun- tries had been, and as pervasive and important as their newly creat- ed aviation industries were, the end of the war brought about a rapid demobilization that literally erased air power from the grasp of England, the United States, Russia, and Italy. France did not demobilize quite so rapidly, and remained for many years the pre- mier air power in Europe. Germany was not allowed an air force under the terms of the Versailles Treaty, and Austria-Hungary was no more, broken up into a number of smaller states.  The precipitous demobilization was both a psychological and a budgetary reaction. All nations were sick of the slaughter of the Great War, and all nations, with the exception of the United States, were virtually bankrupt because of the vast expenditures of the pre- vious five years. There were internal factors within the services oper- ating as well. When an army is reduced in size, fewer general officers are needed. Those that remain are naturally jealous of their position and their prerogatives, and stay fiercely loyal to their original branch of service. The officers of a junior branch, as the air force was in every country, do not have the bargaining power to affect intraser- vice events, especially the apportioning of the budget. This was true in all countries with the curious exception of Germany, where the strictures of the Versailles Treaty were so comprehensive that the ordinary rules of military bureaucracy no longer applied. Germany benefited from the fact that its severely limited armed forces were under the control of a man with exceptional vision, Generaloberst Hans von Seeckt. Though not an airman, he knew that air power might b