ow,” and while the numbers of casualties were magnified by rumor, it did portray the ugly future of aerial warfare.  A lesser-known but important attack took place during October 1937 on the Nationalist airfield of Garipinelos. The attacking Loyalist aircraft claimed forty aircraft destroyed on the ground, without any losses. Airfield attacks became a part of Soviet doctrine, making their terrible losses to such German attacks, in the first days of the June 1941 invasion, all the more inexplicable.  The contending major powers—Germany, Italy, and the Soviet Union—used the Spanish Civil War to test weapons and tactics. These tests produced both positive and negative results for all the parties.  For the Soviet Union, the experience in Spain provided invalu- able combat training for later battles against the Japanese and Germans. For senior officers in those units, combat was, ironically, a relatively safe haven, for they were less likely to be consumed in the insane purges Stalin was visiting upon his officer corps. In terms of strategy and tactics, the Spanish Civil War confirmed the impor- tance of air superiority, and spurred the development of a new series of fighters that would flow—just in time—from the Mikoyan- Gurevich, Lavochkin, and Yakovlev design bureaus.  Italy was slow to learn from its experience in the Spanish Civil    Air Power and Its Influence Between the Wars 191  War. Its sturdy Fiat CR. 32 fighters were delightfully maneuverable dogfighters, the superb flying qualities of which suited the style and dash of Italian pilots, and were extremely valuable during the first year of the war. They acquitted themselves better against the Russian aircraft than did the German fighter biplanes, although they suffered heavily, some 159 being lost during the war. The Italian government drew the conclusion that the biplane fighter was still viable in modern air combat (despite the evidence rendered by the German Bf 109) and entered a successor, the handsome Fiat