saka, and Yokohama. Smaller cities were also attacked, bringing the burned-out area of Japanese cities to an esti- mated ninety-four square miles—fifty-six of these in Tokyo alone. The cost in B-29s was an acceptable 136 aircraft, a loss rate of only 2 percent. As the major cities turned gray in their ashes, XXI Bomber Command attacked secondary cities that housed any war-making potential whatsoever. It also dropped millions of leaflets urging the Japanese public to surrender before they were killed by bombs or starved to death. Death by starvation was the greatest threat, for American submarines, mines (including many laid by B-29s), and aircraft had almost eliminated the entire Japanese merchant marine, down to small fishing boats, and imported food was impossible to obtain. To make matters worse, the Japanese rice harvest was disas- trous, yielding almost 50 percent less than in previous years.  General LeMay believed that he could force Japan to surrender with conventional firebombing attacks, but he was not going to have the chance to have his theory validated. A decision had been made before July 1941 to create an atomic bomb before the Germans were able to do so. The mammoth $2-billion program paid off at  280 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Alamagordo, New Mexico, on July 16, 1945, with the detonation of the world’s first atomic bomb. The news was vitally important to President Harry S Truman, still a novice after just three months in office, for it permitted him to plan on defeating Japan without requiring Soviet assistance to do so. He shared the news with Winston Churchill, but not with Joseph Stalin—who already had full information on the project from his spies in the United States.  Using the bomb against Japan was fraught with moral conse- quences. There was never any question in Truman’s mind that the bomb should be used if it would save American lives, but he wanted Japan to have an opportunity to surrender if possible before the bomb was dr