ese was the formal establishment of an air    Fledgling Wings 45  arm, while the second was the establishment of formal trials to obtain aircraft designed for military use.  Naturally, given its great interest in aviation, France was a leader, establishing on October 22, 1910, a Permanent Inspector of Military Aeronautics to oversee all aspects of aeronautics. A long battle for control of military aeronautics ensued between the artillery and the engineering branches, the former advocating the close control of aircraft by ground units, the latter wishing to establish a more autonomous air arm. The issue was resolved in favor of the artillery, and there was no formal French Air Force established until 1934. The French held a Military Aeroplane Competition in October and November 1911, which attracted thirty-one contenders, of which only nine passed the trial elimination tests.’  In Great Britain, the first step was the creation of the Air Battalion of the Royal Engineers on February 28, 1911. This was fol- lowed by the establishment of the Royal Flying Corps on April 13, 1912. It had a Naval Wing, a Military Wing and a Central Flying School (ultimately, perhaps the most important constituent.) A Military Airplane Competition was held in August 1912, attracting a wide variety of “aeroplanes” to be evaluated."  Germany’s preoccupation with large airships and a bureaucratic standoff had dampened aircraft development. Most of the available funds went for Zeppelins, and when German aircraft manufacturers sought funds for development of aircraft, they were told that the government was interested only in buying already developed air- craft, which hampered formal military trials. In November 1910, the Chief of the Central Staff, Helmuth von Moltke, established an Inspectorate for Aviation and Motor Vehicles to procure aircraft. A Fliegertruppe (Flying Force) was established in October 1912, and its units were completely subservient to the German Army, actually coming under th