tates and Great Britain even though it had already decided that it could not fight the Soviet Union.  Part of this error in decision-making stemmed from the inter-service competition that permeated the Imperial General Staff, where the Japanese Navy now held the upper hand. The Japanese Army, already embarrassed by being unable to win the war in China, had suffered an intolerable loss of face in its battles against the Soviet Union. It there- fore grudgingly acquiesced in the Navy’s determination to secure  Air Power and Its Influence Between the Wars 185  petroleum resources by moving into Southeast Asia in force. The two services, for different reasons, thus agreed to go to war with the United States and Great Britain while still embroiled in China. The Western mind simply cannot fathom how the Japanese leadership could have entered this new war understanding that it had no chance of winning a prolonged conflict. Instead, Japan began a calamitous war based on the wistful hope that the Western democ- racies were soft and that a sharp opening blow would permit Japan to establish a defensive ring that the United States could not pene- trate. The result was supposed to be a peace treaty giving Japan all that it requested.  In essence, the Japanese psychology of the time was such that incidents like the Panay and the acquiescence of French authorities in Indo-China promoted aggression, while incidents such as the defeat at Khalkin Gol promoted not just caution but denial.  Italy in Ethiopia  Italy had unsuccessfully attempted the conquest of Ethiopia in 1890, being defeated at Adowa in 1896, and was shamed by the memory of the failure. Italy had retained a precarious foothold there in territory next to Italian Somaliland and Eritrea. After months of careful preparation, a trumped-up border incident gave the Italians an excuse to invade Ethiopia on October 3, 1935. The citizens of France and England reacted in horror and disgust to the mismatch of a powerful European na