ft of the seventy-two French divisions that waited for the German onslaught, which had been delayed by the unexpectedly stiff resistance of the Belgian Army— the next part of the Schlieffen plan to go wrong.  On August 19, Captain Philip B. Joubert de la Ferté of No. 3 Squadron and Lieutenant G. W. Mappelbeck of No. 4 Squadron took off on the first aerial reconnaissance of the war, flying a Blériot and a B.E.8, respectively. Nothing was discovered on this flight, or on flights on the next two days. On the twenty-second, however, No. 3 Squadron’s Captain L. E. O. Charlton and Lieutenant V. H. N. Wadham discovered that a huge column of the German First Army was passing through Grammont. It was the beginning of a move- ment by General Alexander von Kluck to initiate the right wheel of the Schlieffen plan. This was the first in a series of key observations that would permit the British and French armies to survive.  Armed with this knowledge, Field Marshal Sir John French, the commander of the BEF, undertook to make a stand at Mons, determined to hold for twenty-four hours to give the French Army, under General Charles Lanrezac, time to avoid Kluck’s enveloping maneuver.  There followed the famous series of battles in which the British retreated, day by day, their accurate rifle fire inflicting grievous losses on the Germans and immortalized in the famous book by Captain Walter Bloem, The Advance from Mons. During the retreat, the British were hard pressed, lacking food, water, ammunition, and hope; in contrast, the Germans were surprised at the level of    58 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  British resistance, but more concerned about their inability to sup- ply sufficient black bread to the troops who hungered for it."°  During the British retreat, the Royal Flying Corps flew continu- ous sorties, reporting the position of the Germans, and suffering several losses. The great coup of the RFC came on August 31. General von Kluck had been ordered to stop his eas