g and completely artificial martial spirit that had held it captive on every battlefield since Guadalcanal, the government vowed to fight on, promising to repel any invasion by the self-sacri- fice of its men, women, and children.  LeMay had gambled his career, and it paid off. He began a relent- less bombing campaign that reduced Japan’s cities to ashes, beginning with an attack on Nagoya, Japan’s third-largest city on March 11, fol- lowed by another on Osaka, the second-largest city, on March 13. Three days later, the target was the relatively untouched Kobe, with its population of 1,000,000. The cigar-smoking general, called by many “the best air combat leader in history,” drove his men hard, flying them an average of sixty hours a month to generate the sorties neces- sary to burn one city after another. LeMay was determined to prove that air power could win wars. When USAAF Headquarters sent him a prioritized list of thirty-three Japanese cities to attack in order to smooth the way for the invasion of the main islands of Japan, LeMay replied, “I consider that for the first time strategic air bombardment faces a situation where its strength is proportionate to the magnitude of its task. I feel that the destruction of Japan’s ability to wage war lies within the capacity of this command, provided its maximum effort is exerted unstintingly during the next six months.””  This was the first instance of an air commander making such a statement; in the past, all of the prophets of air power, and all of those who exercised it, talked only about the potential to achieve such results in the future. It was the mark of LeMay’s leadership that he recognized the scope of the effort necessary to achieve a victory through air power, and that he knew that he could with great exer- tion attain that level of effort. His position was far different from Goering’s, Harris’s, Eaker’s, or Doolittle’s. Each of them had been faced with a superfluity of targets that were far more difficult