ission was demon- strated. By 1925, however, there were six hundred broadcast sta- tions, and a booming industry in radios. Like the newsreel, radio fastened on each new aviation event with unbridled enthusiasm. By the 1930s, the voices of such stars as Charles Lindbergh or Amelia Earhart were as familiar (and as similar) as their faces. Perhaps the best-remembered single incident combining an aviation subject, newsreel film, and radio occurred on May 6, 1937, when the famed German Zeppelin Hindenburg exploded and crashed at Lakehurst, New Jersey, its death throes recorded indelibly in the broadcast words of reporter Herb Morrison. More ominously, Joseph Goebbels used the airwaves with remarkable skill to foster the impression of a mighty German Luftwaffe.  And while television came relatively late in the history of aviation, it has had a greater effect than all the other media combined for it was soon able to present events in real time. The whole world wit- nessed the arrival of Neil Armstrong on the moon and the return of the Voyager from its round-the-world flight. The world was able to watch tragic events as well, such as the bombing in Vietnam, the crash of the Concorde, or the terrorists’ attacks on the World Trade Center. Television reinforces the greater power of its color images with the endless repetition of the events being covered. A radio mes- sage, once broadcast, was gone forever; a newspaper, once read, was  16 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  discarded. But the public’s demand for twenty-four hours of news, seven days a week meant that the television screen became a bot- tomless maw demanding to be continually filled with images. As a result, channels must now relentlessly repeat the material they have gathered, particularly the horror-dujour. A curious phenomenon of this endless repetition on television is that when people can no longer stand the current rehash, they often turn to documentary channels to review the history of past achievem