he Italian government drew the conclusion that the biplane fighter was still viable in modern air combat (despite the evidence rendered by the German Bf 109) and entered a successor, the handsome Fiat CR. 42, into production, instead of concentrating its efforts on the more modern Fiat G. 50 and Macchi M.C. 200 monoplane fighters. The CR. 42 was a good aircraft, and indeed, served in operations until May 1945, but it was hopelessly outmoded from the start.  The Regia Aeronautica also failed to learn from its experience with the large losses incurred in combat, the high requirement for spare parts, and the need to have a sufficient weight of numbers. While it realized the backward state of its engine industry and its limited production capacity, it did not take the necessary steps to remedy the situation. Had Mussolini drawn the correct conclusions about his country’s potential for combat, he would logically have stayed out of World War II entirely. He would have survived the war as a statesman, for Italy’s absence from the conflict would have ben- efited both the Allies and Germany immensely.  Germany’s learning experience in the Spanish Civil War provid- ed mixed results. On the one hand, it was invaluable in revealing just how much effort had to go into maintenance, training, provi- sion of spares, and many other workaday requirements of combat.  The performance of Luftwaffe bombers proved to be deceptive. Because the Heinkel He 111s were more than adequate in Spain, the Luftwaffe high command came away with the belief that they had adequate speed and armament to deal with any future opponent. This proved to be an almost fatal error in the Battle of Britain, where all of the German bombers, including the more modern Junkers Ju 88, were terribly vulnerable to the higher speed and the eight-gun armament of the British Spitfire and Hurricane fighters.  Even though the basic excellence of the Messerschmitt Bf 109 was validated in Spain, it was obvious that there was a