productive, and that the task of carrying the war to England should be given to bombers as soon as possible. Thus the number of airship attacks dropped sharply in 1917, with only seven raids and forty-six attacking airships. In 1918, the game was up, with only four raids, on which eighteen airships started.  The recognition that not much damage was being done to the enemy, and the rise in British defense measures, caused a decline in German effort. Field Marshal Lord John French, a cavalryman at heart, was appointed Commander in Chief of Home Forces on February 16, 1916. (It was a demotion, one he bitterly resented, for he had been replaced as commander of the British Expeditionary Force in France by the indomitably inept Field Marshal Douglas Haig.) One of French’s first actions was to prohibit the firing of anti- aircraft guns at any aircraft, even those known to be hostile. His con- cern was that mistakes might be made in identification, and that the debris from the exploding antiaircraft shells might injure civilians on the ground. Later he had to rescind his ruling.  A series of airfields was set up, and night-flying training became a priority for the RFC and RNAS. By June 1916, 271 antiaircraft guns and 258 searchlights were available—about half of those required. Eight squadrons were deployed at twenty-five airfields, with a strength of 134 aircraft, again about half the number esti- mated to be needed. By the end of 1916, there were twelve squadrons, and the defense network was served by more than seven thousand officers and men. The German hopes about diversion of resources were being fulfilled to some degree.  106 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Of the 134 aircraft, twenty were Royal Aircraft Factory B.E.12s, while most of the remainder were B.E.2cs, supplemented by a hand- ful of Bristol Scouts. The B.E.12 had the “best” performance, but it was pitifully inadequate as a Zeppelin interceptor. Essentially an upgraded B.E.2c with a more powerful 140