e modern than that of the Luftwaffe.  The Soviet Union was the exception to this general scheme. It too was a dictatorship, intent on pursuing Russia’s traditional policy of expansion by long-term methods. It maintained an enormous mili- tary force, one that was viewed with great pride but greater suspicion by dictator Joseph Stalin. But Stalin was aware of the deficiencies with the Soviet economy and its industry, and did not, for the time being, wish to provoke a war with any of the Western powers or with Japan. He particularly wished to avoid a situation in which he might have a war on both the European and Asian fronts. To avoid this pos- sibility, Stalin played a skillful diplomatic game until Germany    Air Power and Its Influence Between the Wars 171  invaded the Soviet Union on June 22, 1941, absorbing vast areas of land in Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, and Rumania at relatively little risk and less cost. These lands served a double pur- pose for they expanded the Soviet Union to include some former Russian territories and provided a buffer against German invasion.  German Peace-time Use of Air Power  It is more than a little strange that three distinctly different and very odd personalities should have combined to give air power its greatest influence upon history during the interwar period. The first and most important of these three was the Fihrer, Adolph Hitler, a cruel, ascetic megalomaniac who had already determined that he would use force to obtain territory in the east for Germany.  The second was the future Reichsmarshall, Hermann Goering, a voluptuary who earned Hitler’s respect by the way he brought the Luftwaffe into being, and who gloried in showing it off. One result of this effort benefited the Luftwaffe in an unusual way. Hitler rewarded Goering’s early efforts to build an air force by giving him control of the German economy in the first Four Year Plan. The Luftwaffe benefited because Goering had less time for it, and his sec-