ons, and radio communications that involved no less a person than Guglielmo Marconi himself. The first pilot to be wounded in combat was Captain Carlo Montu, who was struck by a rifle bullet on January 31, 1912, over Tobruk. Sadly, the first pilot to die in combat was Second Lieutenant Piero Manzini, who crashed on August 25, 1912, shortly after takeoff for a photographic reconnaissance mission. The valiant Captain Moizo was forced to land behind enemy lines on September 10, when his Nieuport developed engine trouble. He was the first airplane pilot ever to be taken prisoner, and was not lib- erated until after the armistice was signed in November 1913.  The successful Italian air campaign received worldwide notice. On August 12, 1912, the London Times stated that “no one can have observed the work accomplished by the Italian airplanes at Tripoli without being deeply impressed by the courage and the ability of the Italian pilots and without being convinced of the valuable use of aviation in wartime.”  On September 10, 1912, the Berliner Tageblatt took a slightly dif- ferent view, reporting “for now at least, airplanes and airships are not practical used as offensive weapons: they have, however been shown to be very useful for reconnaissance. The Italian Command is always,  Fledgling Wings 39  thanks to aircraft, informed of every displacement of Turkish troops, and knows the exact positions of them. Moreover, following the pho- tographs and relief maps made by the airships and airplanes, it has been possible to compile a map with which to conduct the war.”  The Italian air campaign had great effect upon the Italian peo- ple, who rejoiced when the principals were showered with decora- tions, and responded with a flood of poetry, songs, and even a board game celebrating it.  Perhaps the most influential aspect of the Italian campaign was philosophical rather than military, for it fell to Major (General Staff) Giulio Douhet, provisionary battalion commander, to make th