surance because of the bold and quite successful diplomatic ini- tiatives Nixon had undertaken with both the Soviet Union and Red China. The president was confident that neither country would make more than pro-forma objections to a new bombing campaign.  Except for the failure to apply the full strength of the B-52 weapon, Linebacker represented in large part what the Joint Chiefs of Staff had wanted to do since 1964. The attacks began on May 10, and featured a glimpse into warfare’s future with the employment of both electro- optically and laser-guided bombs. Among their achievements was the destruction of the previously invulnerable Paul Doumer bridge.  The results of Linebacker became evident early in June, as enemy columns suffered supply shortages, and the ARVN were able to score more successes. For many observers, this made Linebacker an even more significant demonstration of air power than Linebacker II. The North Vietnamese indicated their willingness to resume peace talks, and when these seemed to be making satisfactory progress, Nixon called a bombing halt in October as a gesture of goodwill.  As in every previous bombing halt, the North Vietnamese inter- preted the gesture as a sign of weakness and became less coopera- tive at the peace table even as they accelerated building a store of supplies for a renewed offensive.  Linebacker II  The North Vietnamese had enjoyed “political air superiority” for most of the war. The term is an odious one, as it reveals that politi- cal shortsightedness handed air superiority to the enemy even as thousands of lives and billions of dollars were being spent in the air  338 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  war. Linebacker and Linebacker II reversed the situation, seizing air superiority and making the most of it. President Nixon now used air power as had been advocated by General Curtis LeMay in 1963, and subsequently by Generals John P. McConnell, Earle Wheeler, and John Ryan, along with Admiral U. S. Grant Shar