hat the book be written, and Dr. Milburn Calhoun, of Pelican Publishing, who undertook to publish it. My fine agent, Jacques de Spoelberch, collaborated with these two men to work out the contractual details.  In the research and writing, I turned to many colleagues for infor- mation, analysis, and ideas. I am grateful for the many valuable sug- gestions made by Dr. William F. Trimble in his thorough review of the manuscript; he gamely endured my many writing gaffes with patience and good humor. Auburn University doctoral candidate Bert Frandsen also reviewed the entire manuscript and gave me many insightful tips. Dr. Phillip Meilinger sent me much valuable material, for which I am most grateful. Dr. W. David Lewis also pointed me to some excellent resources. Dr. William M. Leary was very helpful.  I sent many of the chapters to specialists in the field, and to authors and experts such as Gregory Alegi, August Blume, Warren Bodie, Peter Bowers, Donald Caldwell, Howard Fisher, George Mellinger, Stéphane Nicolaou, Lon Nordeen, Lee Payne, James Streckfuss, Guillaume de Syon, Spencer Tucker, George Watson, and Mark Witzel. All were most responsive, providing many excellent suggestions for correcting my sins of omission and commission. Philip Handleman took time from his busy schedule to review the manuscript; his insight, as always, was invaluable. Wally Meeks not only made his usual good suggestions, he also provided some of the most valuable research material. Richard de Angelis, Susan Fischer, and David Rezelman all contributed material via Air Warfare: An International Encyclopedia.  To everyone, my thanks; if I have forgotten anyone, please forgive me, and know that I am grateful, if forgetful.  a    Introduction  It was with no little trepidation that I chose to use a title so close- ly matching that of one of the most important military books of its time, Alfred Thayer Mahan’s Influence of Sea Power upon History, 1660- 1783. As the following pages will reveal, it