ling, and its great dependence on road, rail, and canal transportation. But the system worked well enough until it fell victim to the attacks of long-range fighters in late 1944 and early 1945. These long-range fighters would do more to disrupt German production efforts than the massive aerial bombing had done—a turn of events totally unforeseen either by Germany or the Allies.  Germany increased production by taking advantage of the talents of gifted—if utterly immoral—managers such as Albert Speer, Karl-Otto Saur, and Erhard Milch. These men succeeded in “rationalizing” its industry, putting key lower-level management decisions in the hands of the factory owners and workers, reducing the number of types of aircraft, restraining the German penchant for changes in production aircraft, and, in 1944, deciding at last to concentrate on the produc- tion of fighters. The result was a massive surge in production in 1944, reaching a rate of forty thousand per year. Unfortunately for Germany, this increased production came at a time when fuel supplies were crit- ically short both for operations and for training.  The Allied situation was far better. Britain not only had control of its own airspace, it had pilots streaming in from training in all parts of the Empire and in the United States. The Soviet Union had vast reaches of territory where flight training could be conducted undis- turbed except by weather. The United States was immune to air attack and had hundreds of flight schools. In aching contrast, Germany’s flight schools were by 1944 almost out of business, turning    254 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  out students with a hundred hours flying time or less, because of short- ages of fuel and instructors. German flying schools were also subject to air attack, and more than one German cadet, out on a solo mission, was caught and shot down by marauding American or British fighters.  The failure to increase German fighter production early on was generally rec