litary men who called for an immediate assault on the United Kingdom. Their argument was that as tired as the German armed forces were, the British were in a far worse state, for the equipment of their army was left behind at Dunkirk, and there was only a single division capable of putting up resistance in Britain. It was felt that landing airborne troops in the South of England could establish more than a bridge- head, but instead would be sufficient to break English resistance. Hitler, however, was too caught up in the euphoria of his victory to contemplate such action. He still dreamed of somehow having Britain as an ally, despite the fact that the British determination to continue in the war was demonstrated by its brutal July 3, 1940, attack on the French Navy at Mers-el-Kebir. Hitler delayed any action, deter- mined to make a generous offer when he made his celebratory  210 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  speech to the Reichstag on July 19. Incredibly, in the meantime he took a holiday, visiting the World War I battlefield sites where he had served as a lance corporal, a runner, and where he had earned the Iron Cross First Class.  Hitler’s Reichstag speech proved to be one of his best, done with a becoming mixture of pride and modesty, as befitted a man who had conquered seven European nations in nine months, six within the last three. But his offer of peace to Great Britain was far from generous, and instead was merely vague. The British provided a negative response within the hour.  Yet the almost one-month interval from the fall of France to Hitler’s speech was a priceless gift to Dowding, who used it to rest and reorganize the RAF. The RAF Fighter Command was desper- ately short of pilots. With 1,456 authorized, it had only 1,094 on strength. Aircraft production was increasing, and the RAF was becoming more adept at returning damaged aircraft to service.”  The delay was an equal blessing to the Luftwaffe, which had lost 36 percent of its force (co