as decided mainly on the Eastern Front, with great help from the Allied bombing campaign and the opening of the Western Front with the invasion of France in 1944.  For the purposes of this book, it can therefore be concluded that while air power was a decisive factor in the outcome of the campaigns in the Mediterranean, air power did not have a notable influence on history as a result of battles in this theater. It happened in North Africa that whoever had air superiority at a specific time tended to win the campaign conducted at that time. It was not until 1942 that air supe- riority was established once and for all by the Allied powers, and from that point on the defeat of the Axis forces in the Mediterranean was only a matter of time. Perhaps the greatest Allied advantage from the campaign was the improvement in close air assault tactics.    The Growth of Air Power, 1941-43 233  The German Army was probably the best in the world for most of the war, and certainly no army was superior to it in defensive oper- ations. In 1943, after the German disasters at Stalingrad, Kursk, and in Tunisia, a new situation developed. The German Army found that while it could not win battles without air power, it could still fight tough defensive battles without any air power at all. During the long agonizing retreat from Sicily and up the Italian boot, the German Luftwaffe was a token force, useful only occasionally for reconnaissance or for strikes against particularly sensitive targets such as the Allied beachheads at Salerno and Anzio. For the most part, the German ground forces just gritted their teeth, dug in, and died as Allied fighters and bombers roamed the battlefield.  The absence of the Luftwaffe was due in large part to the increased demand for fighters for the air defense of the Reich and for the Eastern Front. Germany was at war on too many fronts, and its air force had been kept so small for so long that there was no possibility of recovery, despite an almost miracul