gov- ernment has ever made on surplus sales (with the notable exception of the Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center at Davis- Monthan Air Force Base, Arizona). The Handley Page syndicate, operating as the Aircraft Disposal Company, Ltd., received ten thou- sand aircraft of all types and thirty-five thousand engines, along with thousands of tons of parts. The deal effectively gave Handley Page almost a monopoly on the sale of surplus aircraft and spare parts, but the firm never recovered the initial investment. The market was far smaller than anyone believed possible, and surplus aircraft tend- ed to deteriorate rapidly. Engines did not, but they were often not compatible with new aircraft types.  The vast reduction in forces also called for a reorganization in the top leadership. In a move that was intended to presage the end of the Royal Air Force as an independent service, British Prime Minister Lloyd George on January 9, 1919, combined the Ministry of War and the Ministry of Air into a single unit. Fortunately, he chose Winston S. Churchill, that old friend of aviation, to head the combined ministry.    128 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Churchill’s most urgent tasks were to deal with the fight against Bolshevism in Russia and to supervise the demobilization of forces. The latter had reached such a critical state that the Horse Guards and the Household Cavalry had to be used to arrest mutineers refusing to return to France or go to Russia.’  Yet, the Royal Air Force was close to Churchill’s heart, and he sought to preserve it if he could. He resumed his personal flying instruction only to have two crashes within a month that forced him to give it up. Both crashes were while flying with his personal instruc- tor, the thirteen-victory war ace Captain Robert Scott who was Commandant of the Central Flying School, and who suffered so badly from war injuries that he had to be lifted in and out of the cockpit.  There is an immutable saying in the mili