instrument to be used in such quantities that any opponent was sim- ply swamped by the sheer magnitude of the effort. Losses were unimportant—there were always more planes and more men—and there was a finite number of Nazis.  Britain had reached a measure of air power by devoting an esti- mated one-third of its national war effort to Bomber Command’s cam- paigns. Not only was there never any great assurance of success, there were, early on, indications that the bomber campaign was not achiev- ing the desired results. But the slaughter of the 1914-18 war, the tragedies of the Somme, of Ypres, of Passchendaele, made an invasion of continental Europe the last thing Britain wished to undertake. Bereft of any real alternative for striking Germany, and thus aiding the struggling Soviet Union, Britain placed its bets on the efficacy of a bombing campaign. In the process, it created one of the great military commands of the war, RAF Bomber Command, a dedicated force, incredibly brave in the face of terrible losses, but not equipped for most of the war to do the job for which it was tasked.'  Japan had great difficulty in adapting to the demands of modern warfare. It wanted World War II to be fought on terms acceptable to Japan, meaning it wanted to fight weak opponents with its small, highly trained forces. When, by mid-1942, it perceived that the war was going to be fought on the terms the United States imposed, Japan tried to achieve the maximum amount of air power within its considerable capacity. It had talented designers and engineers, a loyal work force, and a country utterly dedicated to the pursuit of the war. It did succeed partially in moving toward a more powerful degree of air power by demanding even more of its work force and adopting a wholesale system of decentralization that permitted vir- tually every household to become a “shadow factory.” Women were inducted into the work force on a vast scale and were paid at a rate approximately 50 percent that of the c