the Moselle, welcomed the arrival of Coutelle and his Aérostiers. (There was no little irony in this inci- dent, as Jourdan had the year before summarily dismissed Coutelle’s offer of help, advising his superiors in Paris that “a bat- talion is needed more than a balloon.”) Coutelle’s persistence and the professional appearance of his troops apparently convinced Jourdan on this occasion, and the Entreprenant began the history of aerial reconnaissance on June 2, making the first recorded military combat flight in history. Later in the month, the company moved the balloon to Charleroi in Belgium, covering the intervening twen- ty miles in just fifteen hours. On June 23, the Entreprenant made his- tory again when it took the first general officer aloft, General Antoine Morlot, who used a telescope to discern that the Dutch forces were ready to capitulate in the Battle of Maubeuge.  According to captured enemy deserters, the French were assured that “General Coubourg [the Austrian commander] had cursed the balloon copiously, that he kept saying that ‘there’s nothing those scoundrels don’t invent; there is a spy in that thing and I can’t get at him to have him hanged.’”    396 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  This engagement is largely forgotten now, but the experience gained there would be invaluable in the pivotal Battle at Fleurus. Fought on June 26, 1794, at the site of an ancient Roman town, it proved to be one of the most significant battles fought during the French Revolution. Two men who shared the same Christian name and would become famous with Napoleon, Jean-Baptiste Jourdan and Jean-Baptiste Kleber, commanded 72,000 troops. They awaited an assault by Dutch and Austrian troops, who, unaware of the strength of the French, made a headlong assault in five columns.  During the battle, the Entreprenant was enterprising indeed, remaining aloft for more than nine hours, and once again lifting the intrepid Morlot to view the battle, this time ascending as high