op Grumman E-8C Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS); Lockheed Martin EP-3; Beech    Iraq: Air and Space Power 377  RC-12 Guardrail; Boeing RC-135 Rivet Joint; General Atomics Aeronautical Systems RQ-1A Predator UAV; Northrop Grumman RQ4A Global Hawk; and Lockheed Martin U-2.  Once found, the target has to be “fixed,” that is, its location must be determined with precision, most often using GPS satellites. Then aircraft with precision-guided munitions attack the target. After the attack, Battle Damage Assessment (BDA) is carried out.  In Operation Iraqi Freedom, the use of PGMs became almost standard, for in the ten years after Operation Desert Storm, a tremendous effort was made by all the services to adapt them to all of their aircraft. Even the Northrop Grumman F-14 Tomcat was given a new mission as the F-14D (the “Bombcat”), using PGMs.  While a wide variety of PGMs were available, including such standards as the Maverick, HARM, and several varieties of laser- guided bomb, increased reliance was placed on the JDAM, which was not only accurate but relatively inexpensive. Other precision munitions used included the AGM-154 Joint Standoff Weapon (JSOW) and the Wind Corrected Munitions Dispenser.  Naval and Marine aviation worked brilliantly in Operation Iraqi Freedom. A case in point was the sterling performance of the Boeing AV8-B Harriers, which were able to take off from the carrier, fly a mission, go to a forward operating base (FOB) to rearm and refuel, fly a mission, and then return to the carrier. This doubled the availability of the aircraft.  The addition of the Litening II ER targeting pod greatly extended the Harrier's capability. The video downlink of the ISR version of the Litening pod was particularly valuable, for it enabled forward air controllers to see what the Harrier pilots saw, and talk them to the targets.  The Boeing F/A-18s did very well with the new Super Hornets functioning in both tanker and fighter roles. They were