, to carry it out. The essential air power element of this plan was contained in the deci- sion that there would be a single Joint Forces Air Component Commander (JFACC) to control all air operations. General Horner was given the task, and he executed it ably.  There immediately began an explosive buildup of resources, with 398 fighters in place by September 11. This number would build to 652 by the January 17 kickoff date of Desert Storm, the actual air operation against Iraq.  Lockheed C-5s and C-141s were soon landing at the rate of one every seven minutes at Dhahran. These aircraft were joined by elements of the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (never used previously), which provided thirty-nine aircraft from sixteen airlines. This military airlift became a    Post World War II Middle-East Conflicts, Terror, and the Modern Air War 359  vast aerial aluminum conveyor belt from airports all over the world directly to the Gulf. It would outstrip all previous airlifts, reaching a rate of 17 million ton-miles per day, ten times that of the peak of the Berlin Airlift.  The fighters and the transports were obvious. Less obvious was a revolutionary shift in warfare when the Air Force Space Command positioned satellites of the Defense Satellite Communication System to establish communication links for Desert Shield. With this system and the NavStar Global Positioning System, the battlefield was now cloaked with an enveloping power that transcended Iraqi under- standing.  On January 17, 1991, Desert Shield became Desert Storm, with three different forms of attack: Special Operations helicopters, stealth fighters, and cruise missiles. All of the elements of modern warfare were now in play—intelligence, navigation, weather forecast and com- munications from space, superb airborne command and control air- craft, stealth attack aircraft, and precision-guided munitions.  Two units of six helicopters each crossed the border at 2:20 A.M. and took out specific radar sites to punch an initi