rmed forces.  Given the grievous losses suffered in World War I, it is not surpris- ing that France’s political leaders might have been reluctant to take steps that might be construed as warlike. What is surprising is that the French military high command advised them to take this stance. When Hitler ordered the reoccupation of the demilitarized Rhineland in March 1936, the French government, under Premier Albert Sarraut, was inclined to take military action against the Germans, despite having been given no support by Great Britain.” General Maurice Gamelin, Chief of the General Staff, informed the government that it was not prepared to oppose the Germans unless a general mobilization was ordered. Sarraut was astounded to learn that the French Army could only fight static defensive battles, and had no expeditionary force that could be moved into the Rhineland. General Gamelin stated further that “our going into the Rhineland can bring in response a German attack on us through Belgium, as in 1914, and aerial bombing of Paris, of our bases and assembly points, of London, Brussels, Liége, etc.”* In essence, Gamelin said that to eject three German regiments, France would have to mobilize a million men and spend thirty million francs per day—and that it would take more than eight days before it could even begin operations.  Unlike the nations previously mentioned, the outstanding per- sonality in French aviation during this period was not a military man, but a left-wing, Radical-Socialist politician, Pierre Cot. Cot was a pilot during the war, and served twice as Minister of Air, from January 1933 to February 1934 and again from January 1936 to December 1938.  162 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Cot had a vision in which France would depend upon air power for its deterrent effect, with the formidable French Army consigned to a defensive role. The fiery air minister campaigned for a larger air force, and in 1933 pushed through a production plan that envis- aged 1