il 20, 1861, Lowe lifted off from Cincinnati, and landed nine hours later at the inappropriately named Unionville, South Carolina. There the locals were undecided whether he was a devil or a Yankee spy, but he was soon befriended by people of repute who knew his reputation and arranged for his rail transportation to Columbia. His timing was bad, however, for he had landed only eight days after the war had begun, and had been so imprudent as to carry a bundle of abolitionist newspapers in his basket. In Columbia his status changed from possible devil to certain spy, and he was arrested and briefly held in jail. Ultimately, he was released and given a safe-conduct pass back through Confederate lines.  In retrospect, Lowe was in fact a spy, for he noted the numerous Confederate troops on the train trip from Columbia to Louisville, Kentucky, and made up his mind on the spot to offer his services to the Union. Unlike Wise and La Mountain, however, Lowe was at heart a politician, and he sought a position through the auspices of his old friend, Murat Halstead, the editor of the Cincinnati Commercial. Halstead used his influence with the Secretary of the Treasury, Salmon P. Chase, to get Lowe a post as a Union balloon- ist. Lowe was presented as a scientist, and not a “showman” as Wise and La Mountain were, by implication.’ Lowe then sought the bless- ing of Secretary Henry of the Smithsonian as backup. It was a for- midable political combination, one that would result in Lowe’s being interviewed personally both by Secretary of War Simon Cameron and President Lincoln himself. Lowe also differentiated  Appendix 409  himself from the efforts of Wise and La Mountain by proposing not just balloon flights, but also the creation of an aeronautic branch of the military service. The depth of his thinking should be noted; he understood that to be successful, a corps of well-trained, well- equipped troops had to support the balloonist and his balloons, and, further, that military com