from its Etzion Air Base in the Sinai to bomb an Iraqi nuclear power plant twelve miles south of Baghdad. The purpose was to prevent Iraq from develop- ing a nuclear weapon. The F-16s dropped a total of sixteen one-ton bombs on the reactor dome and its surrounding buildings. The attack removed Iraq’s immediate capability to build a bomb, and delayed any such activity for years. Although the strike received international condemnation as a violation of Iraq’s sovereignty, its colossal importance was not fully appreciated until the Persian Gulf War in 1991, when Iraqi possession of a nuclear weapon might have permanently altered the political and military dynamics of the Middle East. It is, of course, even more important today.  Nonetheless, the limits of air power have been clearly defined in the Middle East. The Israeli Air Force is able to maintain Israel’s sovereignty by preventing its Arab neighbors from (to date) launching another major war against it. The IDF/AF scored the most one-sided victory in modern aviation history with its savage defeat of the Syrian Air Force in August 1982, shooting down eight- five fighters and great numbers of helicopters without suffering a single loss.‘ The air battle was a part of the ill-starred struggle by Israel to eliminate Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) forces in Lebanon. And, while called upon for reprisal efforts, air power is obviously not a tool that can resolve the problems still pre- sented by the Palestinian question.  Before turning to another area of Middle Eastern warfare, it will be seen below that Israel showed the greatest restraint imaginable during the 1991 Persian Gulf War, by refusing to have the IDF/AF intervene even when Scud missiles were falling on Israeli territory.  Air Power in the Iraq-Iran War, 1980-88  The vast distance between the Western and the Middle Eastern military mind-set was demonstrated by the manner in which air power was either ill-used or ignored in the long, eight-year strug