h the Navy minister himself. Yet, Yamamoto, with typical grace, agreed to Ozawa’s ideas, and saw to it that the Japanese naval air service was reorganized into air fleets with corresponding land-based air flotil- las. Vice Admiral Chuichi Nagumo commanded the first of these, the First Air Fleet, which in April 1941 was the most powerful orga- nization of naval air power in history. Five months later it would be tested at Pearl Harbor.  Onishi was an ace in the air war against China, and was rabid in his condemnation of battleships. When the American fleet had effectively eliminated Japan’s aircraft carriers from the war, Onishi had his naval aircraft fly off island air bases. Ultimately, and reluc- tantly, he embraced the idea of the Kamikaze attack, and organized the first Special Attack Units in October 1944. Dismayed at Japan’s defeat, he committed suicide on April 15, 1945.  Ugaki had become an air-power advocate only after Japanese air- craft had sunk the Prince of Wales and the Repulse in December 1941. From that point on, he became an ardent supporter of Yamamoto, and was in fact shot down in the same flight with him on April 18, 1943. He survived to command Kamikaze attacks all through 1945, electing to die himself in the last such attack of the war on August 15, the day of Japan’s surrender.  The man who might be considered Japan’s greatest airpower practitioner, Yamamoto, had been particularly fortunate in the tim- ing and the progress of his career. Commissioned in 1905 at the age of twenty-one, he had been wounded in the Battle of Tsushima. He became the naval attaché to Washington. He learned enough about flying to solo a training plane. His sea duty went well, as he com- manded first the cruiser Jsuzw and then the carrier Akagi. He ruffled feathers by openly championing the aircraft carrier over the battle- ship. From 1930-33, he was Chief of the Technical Division of Naval Aviation, and was there able to put his beliefs into practice, causing a progra