at the outbreak of the war the Luftwaffe was in superb shape compared to other air forces in the world. It had adopted the Messerschmitt Bf 109 as the standard single-seat fighter and was introducing the E model of that aircraft into squadron service. Goering and the German High Command still considered the twin-engine Messerschmitt Bf 110 to be the premier fighter, and it would serve well in the first campaigns. Bomber units consisted of Heinkel He 111 and Dornier Do-17 aircraft, supple- mented by the deadly Junkers Ju 87 Stuka. Even the obsolescent Henschel Hs 123 biplane was put to good use. This combination of aircraft, flown by enthusiastic and well-trained crews, overwhelmed the Polish Air Force when Germany invaded on September 1, 1939.  Working in combination with the panzer arm, the Luftwaffe established the pattern for Blitzkrieg (lightning war) operations upon which Germany depended for success. The Luftwaffe had matured into a perfect vehicle for continental air operations in wars of limited scope and duration. These were the only types of wars of which Germany at that time was capable, and they were the sort of wars that Hitler counted on to fulfill his plans of conquest. Unfortunately for him and the German people, World War II would prove to be of great scope and long duration.  By the practical end of the war in Poland on September 27, the Luftwaffe had learned much that would be of value in the months to come. The Polish campaign revealed some shortcomings in the German Air Force that needed to be addressed. The requirement for high production numbers had led to the reduced production of  The Search for Air Power, World War II, 1939-41 197  spare parts. There was a tendency by some of the Luftwaffe field commanders to regard aircraft as disposable, for it was often easier to obtain a replacement from the factory than to obtain the parts necessary to repair a damaged plane. One natural result of this was for the Schwarze Mannen (Black Men), the black