was a lion on land and a lamb on water.  Up to this point in the war, the Germans had pulled off one sur- prise after another, keeping their enemies off balance and winning fairly inexpensive victories. It now happened that the German plan of air attack took the exact form for which Great Britain had been preparing. Despite the years of tiny budgets and the delusion of the “Ten Year Rule,” the British had been fortunate to have a small num- ber of people in every significant area—aircraft design, armament, radar, ground observer corps, training, and operations—who cre- ated just enough of the essential tools to defeat the German attack. Thus it happened that there were eight-gun armed Spitfires and    212 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Hurricanes flowing off the shadow-factory production lines; that the Ground Observer Corps system of reporting aircraft intrusions that had worked in World War I was updated to serve again; and that, most of all, there was an effective radar system in operation which would permit the RAF to use its forces in the most effective and eco- nomical manner.  To this fortunate combination of events must be added the factor of Trenchard’s legacy, a sense not only of superior capability, but one of superior moral worth, that pervaded the RAF, and gave it such high morale and dashing élan.  The Luftwaffe, ever victorious so far, went to war against Britain with enthusiasm, discipline, and skill, and came within days of win- ning the Battle of Britain. It did so despite the wear and tear from the recent campaigns and the lack of appropriate long-range fighters and four-engine heavy bombers. Where Germany had employed 2,750 of its 4,050 total combat aircraft in the Battle of France, it now had only 2,550 to employ against Great Britain. These consisted of 998 bombers, 261 dive-bombers, 224 Messerschmitt Bf 110s, and 805 Bf 109s, along with other miscellaneous types. Of this mixture, it would soon be discovered that the Ju 87 dive-bomber