ders acquiesced to the cession to Germany of the Sudetenland (which contained almost all of the formidable Czech for- tifications). The agreement had been composed for the most part by Goering, and with a few minor quibbles, was signed as written.  The third and most brutal instance of Hitler’s use of air power to influence events came the following spring. On March 14, Hitler summoned to Berlin the president of the rump Czech state, Dr. Emil Hacha. Hacha, who suffered from a heart condition, was forced to go through lengthy and tiring ceremonies before finally being ushered in to see Hitler at 1:00 A.M. on March 15. Hitler and Goering then played bad cop and bad cop, with Hitler threatening to unleash his armies while Goering promised to destroy Prague at dawn with his Luftwaffe. Hacha fainted, only to be revived by an injection from Hitler’s notoriously incompetent personal physician, Dr. Theodor Morrell. By 4:00 A.M. on March 16, Hacha had agreed to Hitler’s demands. He signed an agreement that made Czechoslovakia a German protectorate, and phoned his aides to insure that the Czech troops did not resist the invading Germans.*  Hitler marched troops in to establish the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia. On March 16, he occupied Slovakia, and one week later, in a manner so nonchalant that there was scarcely a protest from any- one, forced Lithuania to cede the port city of Memel to Germany.  Thus in little over a year, Hitler’s implicit and explicit threats to  Air Power and Its Influence Between the Wars 177  use his air force had allowed him to acquire four additions to his ter- ritory that altered the map of Europe. Prior to 1938, the democra- cies, despite their lethargy and their fear of being bombed, had in combination been stronger than Germany. The loss of the Czech for- tifications, manned by a determined Czech army of some thirty-four divisions and backed by a surprisingly strong if obsolescent air force, completely upset the balance of power. Poland wa