assionate relief missions that have seen the USAF on the spot with relief supplies and remedial measures all over the world, whether the trouble is earthquake, fire, flood, civil war, famine, plague, or anything else. It is worth noting that the number of lives saved by these com- passionate missions, especially those that involve fighting insect-borne disease or fighting famine by enhancing agriculture, far exceeds the total number of lives lost to all hostile air action in history.  The peaceful resolution of the Berlin Blockade had a curious by- product. The battle-less Berlin airlift seemed to reduce Soviet inter- est in an open clash of arms with the United States. While it would continuously build up its forces and those of its satellite states, and thus present the continuous threat that Red armies might suddenly spill past the frontiers and race to the Channel coast, it directed more of its energies into a changed strategy. The Soviet Union now tried to expand Communism by supporting “freedom” movements around the world, particularly in countries that were shaking off their previous masters. The greatest success came in China, but there were active Communist cells fomenting revolution elsewhere in Asia, Africa, Central America, and South America. And wherever possible, the Soviet Union would seek to embroil the United States in wars with Soviet client states serving as proxies. This strategy would be only too successful.  The crisis in Europe seemed to be temporarily quelled. In the Far East, however, there were disquieting events. On October 1, 1949, Mao Zedong proclaimed the People’s Republic of China, with    The Cold War, 1945-62 293  America’s longtime ally, Chiang Kai-Shek, scuttling with his dwin- dling forces to Formosa (Taiwan). On January 14, 1950, Ho Chi Minh declared the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and was promptly recognized by the Soviet Union and Communist China. Then, on June 25, 1950, with the implicit backing of both Stalin and Mao Zedon