pal attack was to sweep through Belgium, Holland, and Luxembourg in a wide arc that would break through French lines and sweep to the Swiss frontier, ending the war in six weeks. The German railroad system would then move the victorious troops across Germany to meet and defeat the Russians. Little resistance was expected from either the Dutch or the Belgians. Inexplicably, Great Britain was not expected to intervene, and the Russians were supposed to take at least six weeks, and perhaps longer, to mobilize.  Von Schlieffen continued to modify the plan even after his retire- ment, bringing it to (in his judgment) “perfection” by 1912. Unfortunately for the plan, he was succeeded as Chief of Staff by Helmuth von Moltke. The new chief lacked the stomach to carry out the plan as devised, particularly when, in the very first days of the war, things began to go awry. In fairness, it should be noted that von Moltke was facing a different military and political situation than von Schlieffen had counted on. That von Moltke, the German General Staff, and Germany itself continued to rely on the Schlieffen plan despite those changes is one of the great mysteries of history.  Von Moltke has received blame for the failure of the Schlieffen    Air Power in World War I 55  plan because he excluded Holland from the invasion, weakened the right wing of the German Army before the battle began, and then took further strength from it when the Russians mobilized quickly and invaded East Prussia. Where Count von Schlieffen had called for 90 percent of German strength to be placed in the right wing, even if this meant that Alsace-Lorraine would be temporarily lost, von Moltke allocated only 60 percent.  Yet it is fair to say that the ultimate reason for the failure of the Schlieffen plan was the reconnaissance reports made by both British and French aviators, and which, almost miraculously, were not only believed but acted upon by Allied commanders. They came about in the following manner.