r speed and the eight-gun armament of the British Spitfire and Hurricane fighters.  Even though the basic excellence of the Messerschmitt Bf 109 was validated in Spain, it was obvious that there was a need for improve- ment in power and armament as well. What was less obvious was that the Messerschmitt lacked the range for more demanding missions,    192 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  such as air combat over England. This lack of insight proved to be fatal in the Battle of Britain. The Germans did know that an escort fighter was desirable, and thought until the fall of 1940 that the Messerschmitt Bf 110 twin-engine aircraft would fill the bill. It did not, primarily because the aerodynamic challenge of creating an airplane that could fly for a very long range and still be a formidable dogfight- er was difficult to achieve. A true escort fighter would not be realized fully until 1943, with the advent of the North American P-51 fighter mated with the Rolls-Royce engine and long-range drop tanks.  In tactical terms, the Luftwaffe created a new formation for fighting units, with aircraft flying in a loose pair (Rotte) with two pairs compos- ing the basic unit, a Schwarm. The Schwarmwas flown in what was called the “finger four” formation, spread out so that a maximum flexibility was afforded the pilots for maneuver and visibility. The experience in Spain also enabled the Luftwaffe to develop effective ground attack techniques that would be invaluable in combination with armored units and confirmed the importance of dive-bombing.  In Spain, the Red pilots adopted the German-inspired “finger-four” formation, but were forced to give it up and revert to standard “V” for- mations when they returned to Russia. In the curious sort of “political correctness” reigning in the Soviet Union during the days of the purge, adopting a foreign combat formation was tantamount to treachery. In the United States, both the Army Air Corps and naval avi- ation adopted what was calle