could see, by inspection, that it was an obsolete and ill-trained force.  Air Marshal Italo Balbo, a capable man, led the Regia Aeronautica until his death in 1940. Balbo was wedded to the concept of the air force supporting the ground and naval forces, and recognized that a strategic air force on a Douhetian scale was beyond Italy’s capacity. Given the limitations on Italy’s resources and its production facili- ties, a moderate air force of semi-obsolescent fighters and bombers was all that he could elicit from Italy’s halting war machine.  Balbo had accomplished a great deal before, in the 1920s and 1930s, with his civilian mass flights and in the conduct of operations in Ethiopia. But when Mussolini involved Italy in a war against France and England, the Regia Aeronautica was doomed, and with it any possible Italian use of Douhet’s theories. Mussolini also resent- ed and feared Balbo’s popularity, and was probably relieved when he was accidentally shot down by Italian antiaircraft fire in 1940.  In retrospect, Douhet should be honored for being the first to speak out in a methodical way about air power, and for inspiring others. The bare bones of his ideas still have some relevance today, but the more his theories developed, the more they departed from real world results, and the more vulnerable they were to the immutable Five Factors.  United States  In the United States, although the Air Service and then the Air Corps received small budgets, the emphasis was slightly different. Despite his demands for an independent service, Brigadier General William (“Billy”) Mitchell and other leaders, including his archrival Brigadier General Benjamin (“Bennie”) Foulois, were well aware  142 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  that the Army was absorbing the greatest part of their housing and maintenance costs, so that a relatively greater percentage of the remaining air service budget could be applied to research and development. Aircraft procurement, however, was piti