g any formal association with the govern- ment, Lowe was pressed into service on June 22, 1861, by General McDowell, still a month away from his debacle at Bull Run. The gen- eral was concerned about reports of a strong Confederate presence in Virginia.  Lowe made several ascents during which Major Leyard Colburn drew remarkably accurate maps of the surrounding territory and the enemy dispositions. Despite these successes, in the next weeks, Lowe would be confronted with a bureaucratic problem that has haunted procurement in aviation from that day to this. He was asked by Whipple to make a proposal for a balloon and its equip- ment to the Topographical Bureau, unaware that John Wise had also been asked to propose.    Appendix 4il  Lowe made a carefully thought out bid, assuming that he had the inside track, and was dismayed to find that Wise had been the low bidder by two hundred dollars. All of Lowe’s careful preparations seem to have been in vain, and he was insulted when Whipple sug- gested that as an alternative Lowe might consider piloting one of Wise’s balloons.  The struggle at Bull Run was drawing near, and, as noted, Wise, for reasons beyond his control, was unable to be at the battle. Seeing an opportunity, Lowe made an effort on his own to take his balloon to the front, but was overwhelmed by the hordes of routed Federal troops streaming back toward Washington. Instead, he made a daring free ascension at Fort Corcoran, in Arlington, that yielded information on the movement of enemy troops. The flight itself was dangerous, and when he returned to Federal lines by means of wind at an upper level, he was fired on by Union forces.  The flight, however, was the solution to his problems, for on the following day he was invited to the White House to meet with President Lincoln. Though there were many difficulties ahead, from General Scott’s lack of interest in balloons to yet another argu- ment with the unfortunate Whipple, Lowe was finally employed by the gover