the American Depression, so that for almost all the young men the prospect of a cruelly hard mil- itary life and possibly dying for the emperor seemed to be a good career choice. Those who died in battle were glorified.  In Germany, defeat, inflation, and depression had brought about an explosive situation in which gunfire in the streets was a constant reminder of the struggle between the Left and the Right. When Hitler came to power, his policy of rearmament was seen not only as restoring the nation’s dignity, but also as the first and best means to escape from the Great Depression.  Rearmament and public works projects such as the building of the Autobahnen were certainly short-term solutions to the problem of unemployment. Unfortunately, the expense of rearmament carried with it an implicit requirement to use the newly armed German forces to obtain new assets from other countries, including land, industries, gold reserves, and natural resources. Ironically, the size and pace of the German rearmament was a primary factor in impelling Adolph Hitler to go to war in 1939, rather than in 1943 as he had so often promised his military leadership. In 1939, Germany’s rearmament was incomplete, and its equipment was far from perfect, but it still had a great relative advantage over its primary potential enemies, France and Poland. (Britain, until late 1939, had wishfully and mistakenly not been considered a potential opponent by Hitler.) After 1939 that advantage would have been steadily eroded as France and Great Britain’s own tardily begun rearmament programs matured. By 1943, the situation would have been reversed. French and British produc- tion would have reached or surpassed German levels, and the equip- ment, particularly the aircraft, being produced would have been more modern than that of the Luftwaffe.  The Soviet Union was the exception to this general scheme. It too was a dictatorship, intent on pursuing Russia’s traditional policy of expansion by long-term met