were fit. The Royal Naval Air Service had fifty aircraft and about forty pilots.’  In the East, Imperial Russia had almost 250 aircraft spread across that great country, along with fourteen dirigibles. Unfortunately, almost all of the aircraft were of foreign manufacture and were well worn, for the Russian system of maintenance was primitive in the extreme. There were two hundred trained pilots (including thirty- six non-commissioned officers) and a hundred observers.'  In marked contrast to Russia, Germany had gone to aerial war with the efficiency that characterized its army. Out of a total of per- haps 500 aircraft, it could put 250 first-line machines in the field, with a pilot for each one, along with no less than nine dirigibles. Germany’s Austro-Hungarian ally could field just under forty air- craft, but had eighty-five pilots.’  In the next few months, each of these countries would learn just how valuable aircraft and trained crews could be, and each would double and redouble its efforts to increase its aerial strength. Unfortunately, none of these countries had any idea of the extraor- dinary wastage that would be involved, not just in warfare, but in the routine day-to-day operation of their air forces. (The Royal Flying Corps would lose two-thirds of its aircraft in the first eight weeks of the war.) It would take months before the wastage factor  Air Power in World War I 49  would be recognized by the respective governments, and many months after that recognition before provision would be made to resupply aircraft and crews at the necessary rate. Some countries— notably France, Germany, and Britain—would rise to the challenge, and create the mammoth industries and training programs neces- sary for modern air war. Some would not, lacking either the mater- ial resources or the organizational skills to do so.  There were in most countries individuals whose outstanding interest and ability were used to overcome all the obstacles of con- ventional thinking to