ar to Britain, but the Navy also had a genuine scouting requirement, to guard against the approach of the British fleet. This scouting role was probably the best use to which dirigibles could be put, for they could range over long distances in relative safety and relay their information back by radio. But such work was not glamorous, nor did it fill what seemed to be an instinctive desire: dropping bombs on the enemy.  The Army had used the airship for reconnaissance on the Eastern Front, but soon found that it was too vulnerable to gunfire for simi- lar use on the Western Front. At a joint meeting in September 1914, representatives of the Army and Navy decided that there were as yet too few airships to bomb England, and further, that they were inhib- ited by Kaiser Wilhelm’s reluctance to bomb the homes of many of his royal relatives. This represented one of the few times that the respective airship divisions had a true meeting of the minds.  It is a characteristic of air power that no matter how monumen- tal the weapon—be it a Zeppelin or a B-52 or an intercontinental- range ballistic missile—there is almost always a single individual who acts as its champion and who sparks its use. With the B-52 it was General Curtis E. LeMay, while with the ICBM it was General Bernard A. Schriever. With the Zeppelin, that individual was Fregattenkapitan (Frigate Captain) Peter Strasser, whose combina- tion of determination, bravery, and technical skills led him to become Chief of the German Naval Airship Division.  The thirty-eight-year-old Strasser was the very image of the German naval officer, who, with mustache and dagger-shaped goatee, combined a crisp official manner and a rare but engaging grin. He used his personal charm to get to know his air and ground crew members as well as he knew the officers who commanded the airships. Yet he could be stern if the situation demanded it, and, like all warriors, his personality—and possibly his judgment—  104 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR PO