s. A second arena was the early development of German airlines that culminated in their com- bination into Deutsche Luft Hansa (DHL) in January 1926. DHL would dominate European traffic until World War II, at least in part  Growth of Air-Power Theory 155  because it was led by the future Field Marshal Erhard Milch. It became the training ground not only for pilots, but also for mechanics and other ground crewmen, as well as a laboratory for instrument flying, navigation, and radio equipment. Specially selected pilot candidates obtained licenses at the German Commercial Flying School, and the best of them went on to receive fighter training at a secret base in the Soviet Union.  A third factor in shaping the Luftwaffe was Seeckt’s prescience in 1922 in establishing secret relations with the Soviet Union by which Germany obtained airfields and labor at which to create training bases, while the Russians gained access to the technical advances the Germans would demonstrate. The retired Colonel Herman von der Leith-Thomsen, a monarchist who had not rejoined the service, head- ed the mission. By 1924 a training field was established at Lipetsk, about 180 miles to the southeast of Moscow. At the same time, Germany contributed 100,000,000 Reichsmarks to build a Junkers air- craft factory at Fili, near Moscow.” Unlike Lipetsk, where everything expected and more was achieved, the Junkers factory was a relative fail- ure. With a capacity of 600 aircraft a year, it built only 142 in the four years it existed before being taken over by Tupolev.  The Luftwaffe prepared its industrial foundation with the establish- ment of German companies manufacturing aircraft in foreign coun- tries, including Albatros in Lithuania, Dornier in Switzerland and Italy, and Junkers and Heinkel in Sweden. This dispersion allowed German firms to maintain an engineering force, keep up with foreign devel- opments, and even make a profit on sales to other countries.  The man who had led the bomber offens