ainst the huge, unknown adversary that was the Soviet Union while still at war with Great Britain—unless one attributes it to Hitler’s boundless ego and unquenchable desire for lebensraum. To undertake such a vast operation with the same inadequately sized Luftwaffe with which Germany had begun the invasion of France bordered on madness, as both Goering and Milch recognized. Most Luftwaffe commanders were appalled by the decision, including the Chief of Air Staff, Generaloberst Hans Jeschonnek, a Nazi so devoted that he would not communicate his misgivings to Goering or to Hitler. (Undeniably brilliant, Jeschonnek rose from his promotion to colonel on November 1, 1938, to become in July 1940, the youngest colonel general in the German armed services.)  In the summer of 1941, the Luftwaffe had about 4,300 combat air- craft. These had to be spread thinly about the new German empire, which now stretched from the Arctic Circle to the Spanish border, and from the coast of France to the new frontiers in the East. Only about 2,770 aircraft were available for Operation Barbarossa, the assault on the Soviet Union.’ This was almost exactly the same num- ber that had been allocated to the campaign in France, where the main attack was primarily concentrated on a narrow front that ranged from as little as thirty to a maximum of a hundred miles. The front in the Soviet Union was almost a thousand miles long when war began, and as the German Army advanced, would expand to almost eighteen hundred miles. As events would prove, the front would soon become deeper than German aircraft could fly. Further, Germany would soon have to provide for additional requirements for the Mediterranean theater and for the defense of the Reich.  220 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  The Luftwaffe had moderately improved its fighter force with the introduction of the Bf 109F, perhaps the best of the long Messerschmitt series. It was also operating the latest models of the same types of bombers t