ediency dictated a change in doctrine that had been fundamental to the Soviet Union for decades that wars would be won by offensive action, with a first strike the pre- ferred option. The Gulf War showed clearly that the Soviet Union was perhaps one or more generations behind the United States in technology, and that in the future, Soviet forces would have to be on the defensive and to center planning around a counterattack.    Post World War II Middle-East Conflicts, Terror, and the Modern Air War 361  This led, after the dissolution of Communism in the Soviet Union on (ironically) December 25, 1991, to a position in which the secu- rity policy of the new Russian Federation would be based on the pre- vention of war.”  There has unfortunately been an unrealistic reaction to the situa- tion by the Russian military, which still seeks somehow to wrest super- power status from the wreckage of the Russian economy. Formerly, the Soviet military was the instrument of Soviet policy; now there is an increasing trend toward the Russian military dictating policy and doctrine. This new doctrine once again espouses preemptive warfare combined with the threat of early use of nuclear weapons. It also guarantees the 25 million ethnic Russians living in former Soviet states protection from any kind of retaliation, a posture troublingly reminiscent of Adolph Hitler’s attitude toward ethnic Germans liv- ing in Czechoslovakia and Poland before World War II.  Given the desperate condition of the economy of the Russian Federation, the military doctrine is currently no more than a dream, moving in a direction opposite to national policy." But this situation could change with the emergence of a strong (and perhaps oil-based) economy that would permit military spending to be vastly increased.  Air Power in Small Wars  It would be convenient if this book on the influence of air power could end with its apotheosis, air power in the Gulf War. In the years that followed there were new emergenci