ns were encountered often over time. The third is that vitally important individual personalities were involved in both the creation of problems and their solutions, a situation which would be found again and again, all through the history of air power.  Despite all the difficulties that were encountered, the balloon and its lighter-than-air relatives proved to be long-lived elements of air power with still more uses predicted for the future. What is sur- prising, perhaps, is how relatively sophisticated were the uses to which balloons were put from the very start.  Balloons at War  Given that humans are so eager to find some new way to inflict harm upon each other, it is surprising that the balloon did not come into general use until the Montgolfier brothers, Joseph Michel and    386 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Jacques Etienne, began their early experiments with hot-air bal- loons. The Montgolfiers were wealthy French paper manufacturers, long interested in science. The initial efforts with the “lifting power of smoke” led them to their wildly acclaimed public ascension of an unmanned balloon on June 4, 1783. The flight, at Annonay, France, was a tremendous technical achievement as well as a great success. In Etienne’s words, “The aerostatic machine was constructed of cloth lined with paper, fastened together on a network of strings fixed to the cloth. It was spherical; its circumference was 110 feet and a wooden frame sixteen feet square held it fixed at the bottom. Its contents were about 22,000 cubic feet of gas, and it accordingly displaced a volume of air weighing 1,980 pounds. The weight of the gas was nearly half the weight of the air, for it weighed 900 pounds, and the machine itself, with the frame, weighed 500 pounds. It was therefore impelled upward with a force of 490 pounds. Two men sufficed to raise it and fill it with gas, but it took eight to hold it down until the signal was given. The different pieces of covering were held together wi