ealing tanks, heavier armament, and increased power were soon factored into American designs.  The national politics of the United States were ostensibly neutral, but in fact President Franklin D. Roosevelt had correctly assessed the Nazi and Japanese threats and realized that war was inevitable. After his unprecedented election to a third term in 1940, he had a freer hand in moving the United States closer in alignment with Great Britain. There followed a series of events that included the pronouncements of the Atlantic Charter, the institution of Lend- Lease, the assumption of convoy duties in the Atlantic, and the embargo of oil and steel shipments to Japan, all of which moved the United States closer to war. His calls for rearmament were startling for a nation locked into a depression, for they included the build- ing of a two-ocean navy and the production of 50,000 aircraft. While insisting that he had no intention of going to war, Roosevelt nonetheless took the steps that allowed the United States to enter the war better prepared than it had been in 1917.  Growth of Air-Power Theory 151  Mitchell’s saving grace was the number of able officers who believed in him and who made the bomber the United States’ weapon of choice. Perhaps the most surprising aspect of his court- martial was the manner in which his subordinates supported him during the trial and even after his conviction, even though they knew they were putting their own careers at risk. His advocates included such luminaries as the future Commanding General of the Army Air Forces and later the first and only General of the Air Force, Henry H. Arnold; the first Commander of the Eighth Air Force, General Ira Eaker; the Commander of Air Transport Command, Lieutenant Harold Lee George; the first Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force, General Carl A. (“Tooey”) Spaatz; Medal of Honor-winner Brigadier General Kenneth Walker; and many others.  The remarkable thing about the loyalty of these men is that