e were also significant differences that affected the outcome of the conflict. This time, the United States was not operating under the umbrella of the United Nations. It was supported by some of its allies, but there was not the consensus of United Nations action.  Korea was a peninsula bounded on one side by the Yellow Sea and on the other by the Sea of Japan—and both bodies of water were controlled by Allied naval forces. Vietnam was bordered on the west by Laos and Cambodia, through which was established the most famous supply route in history, the Ho Chi Minh Trail, to sup- port the insurgents in South Vietnam. Yet perhaps the most impor- tant difference up to the time of the Tet Offensive in 1968 was the Viet Cong guerrilla movement for which there was no counterpart in Korea. The guerrillas were largely imported from North Korea as a terrorist movement that used threats and force to intimidate the  324 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  native population and recruit from it. It was considerably less important after the massive defeat of the Tet Offensive.  Secretary McNamara intended to use carrot-and-stick tactics to teach the North Vietnamese to cease the policies they had steadfast- ly and successfully followed since 1945. He planned to offer conces- sions for “good” North Vietnamese behavior, and varying degrees of punishment for varying degrees of “bad” behavior. The concept of “flexible response” was introduced, in which military responses were to be graduated, so that a Viet Cong (or North Vietnamese) trans- gression would be met by a response just slightly sharper than the transgression. If the next transgression were more serious, then the next response would be more serious. In effect, McNamara put aside the tremendous economic and military power of the United States to fight tit-for-tat slogan warfare. He was seeking to elicit a Pavlovian response from a tough North Vietnamese government that was com- posed in large part of intellectual revol