absolute that Saddam Hussein elected not to send his air force of some 300 fighters into battle. Instead, he moved them to what he hoped would be protected areas, going so far as to bury some in the desert sand. (About 150 aircraft remained hidden in the sand long after May 1, a situation that shows how easily vials of anthrax or small nuclear elements can be hidden.)  The fruits of air and information dominance were harvested by a combination of two additional technological advances. The information received from all of the C*‘ISR assets was used in    Iraq: Air and Space Power 369  conjunction with the Global Positioning System (GPS) to pinpoint the locations of Iraqi targets, down to the movement of individual truck and tanks. Once located, the coalition air forces were able to use precision-guided munitions (PGMs) to destroy the target.  The brilliant achievements of the war were played out against a media that held a very jaundiced view of the operation. Almost immediately after the war began, there was wide spread commentary to the effect that Operation Iraqi Freedom was “bogged down”, and that Baghdad would become a Stalingrad-like graveyard for coalition forces. Almost nightly, the clamoring talking heads on television raised all the manifold possibilities of what was going wrong, and how huge an error the United States had made.  As the previous chapters have shown, air-power theorists have searched since the early days of World War I for the means to strategically paralyze the enemy. The answer was found late in World War II with the deployment of the Boeing B-29 and nuclear weapons. Yet so terrible was the destructive capability of nuclear weapons that the United States and the Soviet Union, each armed to the teeth with a super-abundance of nuclear power, were able to confront each other for almost half a century and never go to war. Nuclear weapons carried with them the implicit threat of Mutually Assured Destruction, and were therefore never used in the