London, Paris—would be the apotheosis of terrorism. Given this trend, restraining terrorists is doubtful, even though they and the nations that support them are painfully aware that there are at least two devastating methods that the United States, with or without a United Nations coalition, could use. The first would be to conduct full-scale bombing campaigns without regard to collateral damage that would force nations sup- porting terrorism to desist or be destroyed. The second is even more ho: ing, a reversion to the use of nuclear weapons against known terrorist camps and against nations supporting terrorism. This action would be have to taken first as a threat, then as a delib- erate measure of war, to end in the cruelest and most forcible man- ner possible the threat of international terrorism.  Given that United States defense spending has declined on a steady basis since before the Gulf War, and given that the interven- ing MRCs have placed a continual drain on resources, the first option, full-scale bombing campaigns, may be impossible to exe- cute. There are roughly 21 Northrop-Grumman B-2s, 85 Boeing B- 52s, and about 50 Boeing B-1Bs in the American heavy bomber force. With the most efficient employment possible, there are sim- ply not enough bombers to conduct an extended bombing cam- paign over several countries. Nor are there sufficient Air Force and Navy tactical aircraft to conduct such a campaign.  It may therefore be that an unrestrained terrorism, one that employs weapons of mass destruction, could bring upon itself the ultimate terror, nuclear and thermonuclear weapons put reluctant- ly to use to destroy not only terrorism but also, and necessarily, the states that support it.  One can only hope that terrorists will opt for restraint.    Chapter 12  Iraq: Air and Space Power  A new epoch in warfare opened with the brilliant operations of the United States armed services in Operation Enduring Freedom. This all-out pursuit of Al-Qaeda terrorists an