rnest Archdeacon established prizes so that the “homeland of Montgolfier” (the father of ballooning, see the appendix) would not be disgraced by having a foreigner be the first to create a flying machine.  Paradoxically, the French copied the ideas implicit in the Wright Flyer with the same zeal with which they condemned the Wrights as “liars not flyers,” insisting that the Wrights had never actually flown. But it was not until October 23, 1906, after months of testing, that the redoubtable balloonist, Santos-Dumont, hopped his strange- looking No. 14bis into the air in Paris to win the Archdeacon Cup for a flight of more than twenty-five meters. The actual distance was about sixty meters, and it was no more than a powered leap into the air. The little Brazilian did better on November 12, 1906, however, making a flight of 772 feet—substantially more than a hop, and an effort that sent shock waves of enthusiasm throughout France.  The greatest threat to the Wright brothers’ primacy came from Canada, however, where the great Alexander Graham Bell had gathered four young men of talent into a consortium called the Aerial Experiment Association (AEA), whose stated purpose was “To Get Into The Air.” Founded on September 30, 1907, the orga- nization was funded by $20,000 put up by Mrs. Bell. The four men included John Alexander Douglas McCurdy, who would become the first man to fly in Canada; Frederic W. (“Casey”) Baldwin, who would always be confused with the balloonist Tom Baldwin; First Lieutenant Thomas Selfridge, a man who knew the ways of the mil- itary bureaucracy sufficiently well to get himself posted to the AEA; and Glenn Hammond Curtiss, who, like the Wrights, had owned a bicycle shop, but had moved on to building lightweight engines for motorcycles and then began building his own brand of motorcycle. His capability with powerful lightweight engines and his manufac- turing experience more than compensated for the fact that he was the only one of the four without