ut at Fortress Monroe, which was situated at the very point where the James River enters the Chesapeake Bay. The fort overlooked Hampton Roads, the Confederate batteries at Sewall’s Point, and Norfolk.  Appendix 407  After much effort, La Mountain was in place by July 25 at Fortress Monroe, where he made several uneventful ascensions. However, on the thirty-first, he made history with the first effective use of mil- itary air power in the United States, ascending to fourteen hundred feet and spotting several previously undetected Confederate encampments. Further, his observations made it clear that Butler was not opposed by nearly as large a force as he had thought, putting to rest, for a moment, his fears of being overwhelmed.  La Mountain followed up this exploit with further ascensions, including the first American use of what might be termed an “air- craft carrier.” He stationed his balloon on the armed transport Fanny, from which La Mountain made an ascent to two thousand feet to study the Confederate encampments.  General Butler was entirely satisfied with La Mountain’s services, and readily approved the invoice the balloonists had submitted for the costs he had incurred. La Mountain, however, was soon caught up in one of the typical wartime bureaucratic misunderstandings. Butler was ordered to another command, and his successor, Major General John E. Wool, had no knowledge of the personal arrange- ments Butler had made with La Mountain. As a result, La Mountain had to go, hat in hand, to Washington to seek further employment.  While there was no question of La Mountain’s knowledge and daring—he would later undertake free-flight reconnaissance of Confederate lines, driven over the lines by winds in one direction, than rising to catch a different wind at high altitude for the return trip. He had exaggerated his ability to build hydrogen-generating equipment, so that at the crucial moment, he was unable to deliver the services he had promised.  Simultaneously, L