ieving that it would win the next war by fighting it in the same manner. The emphasis France placed on the cooperation of air and land forces in    Fighters and Bombers 93  defensive operations during World War I would also be replicated in World War II, which would prove to be a fatal error, playing directly into the hands of German strategists.  Italy  The Italian Military Aeronautics Corps was formed on January 7, 1915. When Italy entered World War I with its May 23, 1915, decla- ration of war against Austria-Hungary, its army possessed about 150 aircraft, 91 pilots, 20 observers, and 20 student pilots. The Navy had an additional thirty-four seaplanes and six semi-rigid dirigibles. The Italian aviation industry was still in a primitive state, with the total production of its five aircraft firms amounting to no more than fifty planes annually.” Foreign planes, mostly French, were procured to meet the growing requirements, but the intensely nationalistic Italians wanted their own industry and their own aircraft.  Operationally, the Italians were at the same relative disadvantage as the French, for while the Austro-Hungarian air forces could bomb Italian targets (primarily Venice), the Italian Air Force did not have the range to reach Austria-Hungary. Many of the targets it could reach were in areas that Italy hoped to acquire as a result of the peace treaty, and it thus made little political or economic sense to bomb them. The requirement for long-range bombing led the Italians to build up a large fleet of airships, deploying more than sev- enty-five of them. The Italian airships did not achieve even the lim- ited success of their German counterparts.  The first prophet of air power, Giulio Douhet, made one of the most important contributions to military aviation by allowing, with- out proper authority, Gianni Caproni to proceed with the construc- tion of the first of his trimotor bombers for the Italian Air Force. Douhet had already angered his superiors by his pr