ttle. They failed to do so because they were not yet sufficiently aware of the value of ground attack. Had Verdun occurred in 1918 rather than 1916, they would not have made the same mistake.  The general pattern of air combat by increasingly larger forma- tions of fighter aircraft was established at Verdun. Both the Allies and the Central Powers had found that it made logistic sense to have specialized units operating the same type of aircraft, a practice the French had inaugurated. Circumstances sometimes forced the Germans to deviate from this policy more often than not, operating two or three different types of aircraft.  Germany, stretched thin by its war on two major and two minor fronts and increasingly hampered by the rigorous British naval blockade, recognized that it could not match the Allies on a plane- for-plane basis, and therefore had to reorganize its air force to obtain the maximum results. A decision was made to form special units dedicated to air combat, using the latest single-seat fighters available. These were known as Jagdstaffeln (fighter units), with a strength of about a dozen aircraft. The German goal was to have thirty-seven such units in action by April 1917. The youngest captain in the German Army, Hauptman Boelcke was appointed to com- mand the Royal Prussian Jagdstaffel 2, among the first and ulti- mately one of the most famous of them all.  The Jastas (as they were abbreviated) proved to be a fertile train- ing ground for future aces and commanders, none more so than Jasta 2. They were opposed by French escadrilles and British squadrons, which differed somewhat in strength, and most decid- edly in methods of operation.”  In attempting to establish air superiority, fighter-versus-fighter combat became the order of the day, with the imbalance between Allied and Central Powers resources dictating the tactics that would    82 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  be used. In general, the British pursued a relentless offensive policy t