f their housing and maintenance costs, so that a relatively greater percentage of the remaining air service budget could be applied to research and development. Aircraft procurement, however, was pitifully low, and would remain so until 1940. There were other factors, however, that helped offset the budget deficiencies.  Billy Mitchell was unquestionably the most charismatic of the three principal philosophers of air power under discussion here. Born in Nice, France, on December 28, 1879, Mitchell carved out a meteoric military career mostly on his own merits. He charted new paths, embraced new technologies, and created a core of able adher- ents who did their best to implement his philosophy of air power. Never the most tactful of men, Mitchell proved to be the brutal blocking back behind whose slashing efforts other men would act as quarterbacks to advance the concept of an independent air force.  When war with Spain came in 1898, Mitchell enlisted as a private in his father’s old regiment. His wealthy father was now a United States senator, and his influence allowed young Billy to be commis- sioned—at the age of eighteen—in the Signal Corps. He immedi- ately demonstrated his leadership and organizational ability in tours in the Philippines and Alaska, making some waves in military pro- tocol in the process. Nonetheless, he was the youngest captain in the Army by the age of twenty-three, with the promotions earned by his own merit. Nine years later he became the youngest person to be appointed to the Army General Staff.'* Intrigued by aviation, he paid for his own flying lessons at the Curtiss Flying School at Newport News, Virginia, paying $1,470 for twenty-four and one-half hours of training.” That he paid for his own training would allow his principal enemy in the Air Service, Bennie Foulois, to stigmatize him as not a “regular flyer” because he had not been to an Army training school. There was no little irony in this accusation, as far from attending a regula