he start, crushing the small and ill-equipped Norwegian Air Force, and then besting the limited efforts of the RAF in almost every encounter. It allocated 1,098 aircraft to the campaign, of which 557 were trans- ports, 342 long-range bombers, 39 dive-bombers, and 102 fighters. As each Norwegian airfield was seized, German aircraft deployed to it to begin the next operation.'* The Japanese used a similar tech- nique in their 1942 conquest of the Malay Peninsula.  Britain ran a tremendous risk, sending three aircraft carriers to the battle, the Furious, the Glorious, and the Ark Royal. The Glorious dispatched eighteen Gloster Sea Gladiators of 263 Squadron to Lake Lesjeskog, eighty miles southeast of Trondheim. There the valiant little biplanes were intended to confront the lethal Messerschmitts, flying from a 1,800-foot runway scraped from the snow-covered lake surface. Unfortunately, the battery carts used to start the Sea Gladiator’s engines were inoperable, and after a night on the frozen  204 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  lake, there were only two aircraft available for takeoff before the Germans attacked. After an eight-hour air assault, only five Gladiators remained. The Glorious carried away the surviving planes and pilots of the Norwegian campaign, only to be sunk a month later by the battle cruiser Scharnhorst, with a loss of 1,400 of the carrier’s crew.  The value of air power was proved in one instance by its absence, for the only major British success occurred at Narvik, which was beyond the range of the Luftwaffe. In a brilliant naval engagement, the Royal Navy sank nine German merchant ships and nine destroy- ers. The Allies landed twelve thousand troops, and the Germans were driven from the city, holding on by their fingertips to the out- skirts. After all the defeats, it was a bright moment for the Allies, proving that with the Luftwaffe taken out of the equation, the German Army could be beaten. Unfortunately, on May 10, the Allies were fo