new ideas. One was critically important. It was the Soviet contention that masses of surface-to-air missiles (SAMs) could neu- tralize the Israeli air superiority. Arab ground forces, with their vast- ly superior numbers, could then overwhelm their common enemy.  The effectiveness of the idea was tested during the so-called War of Attrition, with its continuous exchange of artillery fire and the heavy losses inflicted on the Israeli Air Force by SAMs. The three-year battle became a training ground for the Yom Kippur War of 1973, for it showed that one form of air power, massive amounts of antiaircraft artillery and SAMs, could neutralize the traditional form of aerial bombardment. The Soviet Union, understanding that there was no conceivable way that Arab air forces could ever match either the training or the éan of the Israeli Air Force, counseled Egypt and Syria on the wisdom of accepting huge quantities of antiaircraft and SAMs  Post World War II Middle-East Conflicts, Terror, and the Modern Air War 347  to create virtually impenetrable defenses. They also sent destabilizing weapons such as Scud missiles, a primitive development of the German V-2 but still a factor to contend with in the Middle East today.  The gifts were laden by thousands of Soviet advisors, and by an increasing Soviet say in Arab policy, including veto rights on the fir- ing of Scud missiles.  As has happened so often in history, personal elements combined to affect the exercise of air power, and its subsequent influence on his- tory. In this case, the President of Egypt, Anwar Sadat, saw the logic of the Soviet advice, and decided to adopt it in a plan that called not for the invasion and defeat of Israel—as everyone demanded—but instead for the seizure of a strip of land on the eastern side of the Suez Canal. Sadat planned a war of limited scope and duration—his aim was to regain Arab dignity by seizing a portion of the Sinai, then force a diplomatic settlement in the United Nations that wou