tical forces were successful in their mission only because they operated under the umbrella of the massive nuclear air power of the United States. Because of this mental set, when the USAF was forced—against its wishes—to begin to intervene in Southeast Asia, it did not have the proper equipment or training to do so. Instead of being able to put capable, well-trained counterin- surgency forces in the field, it was forced to improvise. United States naval aviation had equipment more suited to the contest, but it too was limited in the number of aircraft carriers that it could maintain on station for any given period of time.  A Cautionary Note  The premise of this book is to reflect on the influence of air power on history, a particularly difficult task to do in relation to the Vietnam War for a variety of reasons. First and foremost of these is the passion that the war still elicits from both those who fought it with such desperate effort and those who protested it so vehemently.  The Cold War, 1963-73 319  Another factor is the large number of books that have appeared in recent years that have examined air power and found it wanting, most often concentrating upon lack of effectiveness of bombing campaigns. Written by scholars and less often by military officers, many of the books have a subtext in which the immorality of bomb- ing is highlighted. Those that do so often receive the greatest criti- cal acclaim, for it is easy to appreciate the view that bombing, and indeed, all warfare, is immoral.  Yet in the world in which we live, war is a fact of life. It always has been, and it seems as if it always will be. When nations need to defend their interests, they do so with what they believe to be the most effective means at their command, and for most nations since 1918, those means include bombing.  The bombing campaigns of the Vietnam War have been much examined, and the general consensus of many of the books is that bombing was not effective because the war was ul