on with the advent of the intercontinental nuclear bomber, which at first seemed to render aircraft carriers obsolete. It soon developed, however, that many large, nuclear-armed carrier groups were a vital part of American strategy.)  Mitchell drew quite different conclusions from those of the Joint Army and Navy Board, and submitted a report that called for an independent and equal air force to provide frontier and coastal defense. The ensuing bureaucratic battles saw Mitchell’s boss, General Menoher, replaced by Major General Mason M. Patrick, who knew how to keep Mitchell in line when, as was his habit, he threatened to resign. Patrick let Mitchell know that any offer to resign would be accepted, and Mitchell had to back down.  Another bombing test was conducted in 1923. Mitchell made the most of the successes he achieved, violating military protocol by tak- ing his argument directly to the people through speeches, articles, and interviews—which rankled his colleagues and superiors, includ- ing President Calvin Coolidge.  This act was a critical mistake, for Mitchell was clearly no match for Coolidge in rank or in political acumen. Coolidge determined to wait until an issue arose upon which Mitchell made a significant error, and then nail him.  As Mitchell expected, his position as Assistant Chief of the Air Service was not renewed in March 1925. He reverted to his perma- nent rank of colonel and was assigned to be Air Officer, Eighth Corps Area, in San Antonio, a dead-end job.  Then Mitchell capitalized on two incidents—the apparent loss of the Naval Aircraft Factory PN-9 patrol plane on a flight to Hawaii on September 1, 1925, and the very real crash of the airship Shenandoah on September 3. (The PN-9 was lost at sea for ten days but eventu- ally was rescued.) He openly charged that the accidents were “the direct result of the incompetence, criminal negligence and almost treasonable administration of our national defense by the Navy and War Departments.”  It wa