he Suez Canal. Sadat planned a war of limited scope and duration—his aim was to regain Arab dignity by seizing a portion of the Sinai, then force a diplomatic settlement in the United Nations that would require Israel to return the Sinai to Egypt. Sadat, by force of his personality and by limited disclosure, kept his idea secret from almost everyone, an exceedingly rare event in Arab politics. This secrecy extended even to his Syrian ally, President Hafiz al-Assad, who would be furious when he finally discovered that Sadat’s objectives were so limited.  Sadat’s wily insight that a political solution could be achieved by combining those limited war objectives with a sophisticated integrat- ed defense system was complemented perfectly by Israeli hubris. After the smashing victory of the Six Day War, the Israeli military, and even the nation of Israel, suffered from what the pre-Midway Japanese called “the victory disease”—an utter assurance that they could not be defeated. Israel persisted in this delusion even after the War of Attrition, where it failed to pick up on the potential of mass SAM defenses, and the requirement of electronic equipment to sup- press enemy missile radar. This was a massive failure not only of intel- ligence but also of leadership, for Israeli leaders continued to emphasize the acquisition of armor over virtually every other arm.  Israeli intelligence assumed that the Egyptians would not go to war until the Arab air forces were able to gain air superiority over Israel. They knew that this objective had not been achieved, and therefore ignored the obvious military buildup on its frontiers with Egypt and Syria, attributing them to routine maneuvers.’  Egypt and Syria had not only imported vast quantities of Soviet supplies, they had greatly improved the fighting qualities of their  348 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  armies. They launched their war of revenge at two o’clock in the afternoon of October 6, 1973. In the east, Egyptian for