and more than one German cadet, out on a solo mission, was caught and shot down by marauding American or British fighters.  The failure to increase German fighter production early on was generally recognized as a significant factor in its final defeat. In a postwar interview, Field Marshal Milch said that his greatest regret was the “140,000 un-built fighters” that Germany could have had if it had done in 1938 what it finally did in 1943 and 1944. His esti- mate is probably high, but it is indicative of the failure of German planners to recognize the gigantic scale of operations that true air power required—and was in fact achievable.’  The Germans, in desperation, did introduce “miracle weapons” such as the V-1 pilotless flying bomb (a cruise missile in today’s terms) and the V-2 ballistic missile. If Germany had been able to maintain air superiority, and manufacture the V-1 on the schedule (operational by January 1, 1944) and the quantity (8,000 per month) Hitler had demanded, it might in fact have influenced invasion operations, if not the course of the war. The V-2 in contrast, was an enormous waste of resources that could better have been applied building jet fighters. The V-2 was actually the hobby-shop project of German scientists who were more interested in going to space than going to war. When appropriated for war purposes, the V-2 became the world’s first ballis- tic missile, and had a deadly effect upon morale in Great Britain. Had the Germans had a complementary nuclear program, it might have been decisive, but in the last analysis, the baleful V-2, produced large- ly by concentration camp labor, was a mistake for Germany but a post- war research boon to the United States and the Soviet Union.  The United States had arrived at its overwhelming air superiority by means of its unparalleled industrial capacity, its unrestricted fund- ing, and the limitless reservoir of energy that the decade-long Depression had dammed up. The United States was fortunate th