oving Saddam Hussein's cruel and repressive regime.  He was opposed in the United Nations by a number of countries, including Russia, France and Germany. Each of those countries had its own rationale for wishing to keep Saddam Hussein in power, despite the fact that all three nations had voted for UN Resolution 1441. Iraqi violations of that resolution had already provided adequate justification for military intervention. Despite this opposition in the United Nations, President Bush was determined to make Saddam Hussein, live up to the requirements of UN Resolution 1441.  On March 17, President Bush delivered a unique ultimatum to    372 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Saddam Hussein, calling for him to step down, and to leave Iraq, with his sons, within forty-eight hours. Failing to do so would lead to United States intervention.  All United Nations personnel, including the inspectors searching for Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, were asked to leave. There was a general exodus as embassies closed and thousands of foreign workers left.  Iraq rejected Bush's ultimatum, and threatened a world-wide holy war jihad against the United States. As the time limit expired, the buzz words “Shock and Awe” gained prominence. The initial air attacks on Iraq were supposed to be of such a catastrophic nature that those of Desert Storm would be seen as mild in comparison.  Worries abounded in the press. The number of coalition troops was held to be far too small and the cry for “more boots on the ground” increased, with visions of the Vietnam War and of the Soviet Union's Afghanistan disaster continuously invoked. There was also a mindless claim that war on Iraq might provoke retaliation from al-Qaeda—as if an invitation was required.  Pessimism deepened with the March 2 decision of the Turkish Parliament to refuse access to the U.S. 4th Infantry Division (Mechanized), which subsequently had to be diverted south to Kuwait. Some military commentators thought that the Turk