d air controllers to see what the Harrier pilots saw, and talk them to the targets.  The Boeing F/A-18s did very well with the new Super Hornets functioning in both tanker and fighter roles. They were joined by Northrop Grumman F-14s_ and a host of support aircraft. The Navy's claim for the effectiveness of carrier task groups was fully supported by their performance.  Under a benevolent umbrella of air power, the ground forces moved forward quickly, Army and Marines working hand in hand. On April 4, the 3rd Infantry Division sent twenty-six M1A1 Abrams tanks and ten Bradley fighting vehicles on a twenty-five-mile run through the streets of south and central Baghdad, amazing not only    378 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  the Iraqis but the world. Early reports indicated that the “Thunder Run” killed two to three thousand Iraqis who had attempted to interfere with the raid.  The armored spearhead, which paraded within two miles of Saddam's famous bunker and onto his favorite military parade ground, burst the bubble of media and public discontent over the “slow progress” of the war. It demonstrated that with absolute air and information dominance, coalition forces could move when and where they wished, even in the heart of Saddam's citadel, Baghdad.  Instead of slugging it out, the coalition relied on its air power to provide close air support, on a rapid-reaction basis. Ground and airborne forward air controllers (FACs) in a wide variety of aircraft including Boeing A-10s and F-15Es, Lockheed Martin F-16s, Northrop Grumman F-14Bs and Boeing F/A-18s provided round- the-clock cover in and over Baghdad, all armed with precision- guided munitions.° In Iraq, close air support was no longer defined by fighter bombers dropping down close to the ground to deliver weapons. Instead, huge bombers, operating at high altitude, delivered weapons with uncanny precision on individual trucks, tanks and bunkers.  On the nineteenth day of the war, April 7, a Boeing B-1B bombe