Pathfinder crews to mark tar- get areas accurately with a variety of sophisticated markers, and a “Master of Ceremonies” who orbited the target at great risk and direct- ed incoming bombers as to where best to place their bombs. Successively more sophisticated electronic countermeasure (ECM) devices were available in abundance to jam enemy radar and commu- nications. And while the bombers headed in, specialized de Havilland Mosquito night-fighters sought to eliminate their Nazi counterparts. Most raids were assisted by elaborate spoof sorties that diverted German resources and hid the ultimate target for as long as possible.  Yet despite setbacks, the Luftwaffe night-fighter force had grown both in numbers and in skill, supplementing its radar-equipped night- fighters with single-engine fighters using Major Hajo Herrmann’s Wilde Sau (Wild Boar) techniques. When the British “Window” chaff system knocked out German radars, Herrmann realized that ordinary day-fighters could operate at night, using the flames of German cities as the background against which RAF bombers could be spotted. It was risky, for the single-engine aircraft were tricky to land at night on the darkened airfields, but it filled a huge gap in German defenses when there was no other evident solution. The Germans adapted their radar to handle the British ECM countermeasures, and were some- times innovative enough to find a way to use the enemy ECM to guide their night-fighters to the bombers.  And the Germans did in the air what they did on the ground— make up any disadvantage in numbers or technology with the lives of their servicemen. The air crews, often inadequately trained, flew against tremendous odds, in hazardous weather, in inferior equip- ment, and they died in great numbers. As with the German day-fight- er force, the process of attrition quickly eliminated less-well-trained and adept pilots. Those who remained became more and more pro- ficient, until they too, in the ordinary course of eve