g upon the quick reaction of continuously on-call air power to protect them. The coalition air forces were maintained on a constant alert, operating over the entire area of responsibility (AOR) night and day, ready to respond to any evidence of enemy movement.  Within a very short period, this new system evolved even further. In some instances, the presence and exercise of air power forced the enemy to move to positions more suitable for an attack by coalition land forces. In other instances, the movements of the ground forces were such as to force the Iraqi forces to move in turn—and thus be exposed to devastating attack from the air.  The coalition forces achieved information dominance through the unparalleled use of its Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C‘ISR) capabilities. The combination of at least fifty satellite systems and a wide variety of manned and unmanned aircraft provided a stream of intelligence that gave coalition leaders a common picture of the battle on all fronts. For the first time in history, the commanders of land, sea and air elements all saw exactly the same record of events. They could communicate with each other on an instantaneous basis, and take actions in full harmony with those of all other components.  Measures toward air superiority were taken well before the war, during the long years of Operation Northern Watch and Operation Southern Watch. This patrolling of the “no-fly” zones was dictated to Iraq as a result of its defeat in the 1991 Gulf War. During that period, United States and coalition forces became very familiar with Iraqi targets, air defense systems, and tactics.  This familiarity permitted a true air supremacy to be established at the very start of the war. It was so absolute that Saddam Hussein elected not to send his air force of some 300 fighters into battle. Instead, he moved them to what he hoped would be protected areas, going so far as to bury some in the d