t “professional balloonists,” Jean-Pierre    392 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Blanchard, and his financial backer, Dr. John Jeffries. As often hap- pened in early aviation, a conflict between greed and ego almost prevented the flight. After allowing Jeffries to finance the balloon in exchange for going on the flight, Blanchard planned to double- cross him by taking off without him. He was concerned (correctly as it developed) that with Jeffries’ weight he would be unable to carry sufficient ballast for the trip. The outraged Jeffries forced his way into the Dover Castle launch site. After much argument, he was allowed to join Blanchard on the flight, but only after he promised to leap from the balloon if its safety required him to do so.  The two men flew from west to east to take advantage of the pre- vailing winds, crossing the English Channel in their hydrogen-filled balloon on January 7, 1785. The trip was not an easy one, for the bal- last, as Blanchard had feared, was insufficient. They eluded a dunk- ing only by divesting themselves of their clothing and even their cork lifejackets—a desperate measure indeed, given their wave-skimming circumstances. A sudden freshening of the wind enabled the pair to complete the flight from England to France in two and one-half hours. They brought with them letters, the first air mail.  Honor demanded that this record-setting trip be answered by a flight from France to England, and the king assigned the task to the veteran de Rozier. He had misgivings about the task because of the west-to-east prevailing winds, but nonetheless, he reluctantly obeyed the king’s order. He created a new hybrid balloon, one that placed a forty-foot-tall hydrogen-filled balloon above a ten-foot-tall hot-air balloon. It was an obviously unwise combination and given Rozier’s competence, the decision is difficult to understand. Some primitive safety precautions had been taken; for example, expanded hydrogen from the Charles was to be ven