hen dispatched as needed to contest specific missions. It was an economical and sensible way to fight the war, conserving aircraft usage as well as fuel and supplies. It had several great advantages. First, the prevailing winds came from the west, which worked against the return flight of Allied aircraft, and sec- ond, while the crewmen of shot-down Allied aircraft were either killed or captured, German crewmen who survived were able to return to combat. A minor plus was the yield in materials that cap- tured Allied aircraft provided, as engines, rare metals, and fuel became in ever shorter supply in Germany.  The French fighter philosophy fell midway between the British and the German, being not as aggressive as the RAF, but more ven- turesome than the German Air Force. It also varied from unit to unit and from one period of the war to another, reflecting the general    Fighters and Bombers 83  state of French morale at that moment. The French made the same mistake with flying personnel that the Germans did, tending to group the best pilots in “star” units. This resulted in some very out- standing escadrilles and Jastas, indeed. Unfortunately, it meant that the bulk of the other units not only were staffed with mediocre per- sonnel, but were forced to recognize the fact, a psychological haz- ard that had terrible effect upon both morale and performance.  Later, when the American forces began to appear, those who were trained by the British naturally followed British philosophy. While there are not many nonfiction books on these American pilots, their exploits were rendered vividly in the barely disguised “fiction” of Elliot White Springs. (A wealthy Southerner, Springs was a twelve-victory ace who introduced the mint julep to London society.) Those American pilots who were trained by the French tended to go beyond French policy of moderation toward the more aggressive pattern of the British.  The first Jastas were initially equipped with Fokker Eindeckers and a few