ns. Instead, huge bombers, operating at high altitude, delivered weapons with uncanny precision on individual trucks, tanks and bunkers.  On the nineteenth day of the war, April 7, a Boeing B-1B bomber combined with C‘SIR, GPS and PGMs to attempt to decapitate the regime. Four 2,000-pound JDAMs were dropped, and a 60-foot crater replaced the target, a restaurant in the al Mansur section of western Baghdad where Saddam and his two sons were supposed to be meeting. Although they were not killed in the attack, it was a demonstration of the flexibility and power of modern warfare, one that must have caused every potential enemy of the United States to stop and think.  General Franks used speed almost as a replacement for firepower during the move north to Baghdad. Once inside the city, however, the terrific firepower of both the heavily armed and armored Abrams and Bradleys dominated the battleground.  During and after the war, leaders placed great emphasis on the importance of the Joint Forces Combined Air Operations Center (CAOC) in Prince Sultan, and the $40,000,000 Operations Center at the Al Udeid Air Base near Doha, Qatar. Their success was no accident, for much planning and training had gone into them. During the war they proved their worth, particularly enabling the    Iraq: Air and Space Power 379  concept of “jointness” between services to transcend into interactive operations.  Even before the war ended, data was being gathered on the air war. Lieutenant General T. Michael Moseley (who was later selected to become a four-star general and Vice Chief of Staff of the USAF) issued the first data compilation. By April 25, 2003, the coalition was shown to have flown almost 50,000 fixed-wing missions, of which the USAF flew roughly 30,000, the Navy 9,500, the Marines 5,500 and the Royal Air Force and Royal Australian Air Force about 5,000. Of the missions some 36 percent were strike sorties, 20 percent were tanker missions, and 25 percent were airlift missions, with