Party leader Clement Attlee replaced the old warhorse Churchill as a result of a fit of post-war British ingratitude.  In all of the negotiations that took place at the three conferences, Stalin possessed immense advantages that he exploited later to the maximum extent possible. At Tehran, Roosevelt and Churchill were fully aware that Stalin’s forces were bearing the brunt of Hitler’s wrath, and that the greatest danger they faced was a separate peace between Germany and the Soviet Union. They had to make conces- sions to ensure that the Soviet Union remained in the war. By Yalta, things had changed radically. The Western Allies had at last made good their promises to invade Europe, but by February 1945, mas- sive Soviet armies, three hundred divisions strong, were successful everywhere and had swarmed to within forty miles of Berlin. At Potsdam in August 1945, the inner strength of the Western Allies was buoyed by the knowledge that the United States had successful- ly tested the atomic bomb, but Stalin’s three hundred powerful divi- sions were still an unanswerable argument.  Another advantage of Stalin’s was his intention to abandon any  The Cold War, 1945-62 287  agreements made at the conferences as soon as it suited him to do so. Notwithstanding this intention, and the massive Red Army, there were some good results from the series of meetings, including the establishment of the United Nations and agreement on how Germany was to be divided for its occupation.  It is worth recounting exactly how far and how quickly Stalin had moved to expand the influence of the Soviet Union. He had absorbed pieces of Finland and much of Poland in 1939, then swal- lowed up Estonia, Lithuania, and Latvia in 1940, along with parts of Rumania. In 1944, Finland again had to grant territorial and trade concessions that made it dependent on the Soviet Union. In March 1945, King Michael of Rumania was forced to appoint a Communist- controlled government under Petru Groza, the first ste