air power than their predecessors had been about sea power.  Indeed, they were often “too well informed” because air power became a tool and a target of intensive propaganda efforts. It was the case after World War I that people of democratic nations were conditioned to believe in the efficacy of the enemy air forces and to depreciate the effectiveness of their own air services. In contrast, people in totalitarian countries were led to believe that their air forces were invincible, while those of potential enemies were inferi- or. Fortunately, during World War II, both sets of beliefs proved to be incorrect.  Another factor in the greater influence of air power was that for many nations, particularly those in Europe, air power was endowed with an urgency that differed from the time-honored concepts of sea power. For the most part, the influence of sea power was per- ceived directly only by the sailors engaged in battle. The effects of the exercise of sea power might be felt later (and even disastrously, as in the case of the blockade of Germany in World War I), but they were rarely immediate, and usually experienced only if shells actu- ally rained down on a coastal city in a raid or in some gunboat diplo- matic action. In contrast, air power from the very earliest days pre- sented an immediate, perceivable, and intimidating personal threat to individual citizens in their homes, beginning with the tentative but indiscriminate bombing of Venice as early as 1849. The citizens of London, Paris, and German frontier cities experienced aerial bombardment during World War I. The terrible bombing raids of    14 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  World War II gave the term “home front” a new and terrible mean- ing for much of the world. The continental United States did not face these threats until the advent of the Cold War, and (except for trivial Japanese pinpricks from submarine-borne aircraft and bal- loon-borne bombs) was spared an actual attack until the Septemb