rogen, and was powered by an eight-horsepower electric motor weighing 220 pounds. These were energized by a special installation of 1,500 pounds of chlorochromic batteries designed by Renard. Krebs had designed the motor, which delivered one horsepower for each 215 pounds of power plant.  The great breakthrough for airships came with the introduction of Gottlieb Daimler’s internal combustion engine, which had a much better power-to-weight ratio, producing one horsepower for each eighty-eight pounds of power plant. Unfortunately, imprudent engi- neering started German airship development off with the same sort of bang with which it ended when the Hindenburg exploded in 1937.  No less a personage than Kaiser Wilhelm had taken an interest in the development of airships, and he ordered the Royal Prussian Aerial Navigation Department to assist Dr. Karl Woelfert in testing his Daimler-powered dirigible, the Deutschland. Unfortunately, Woelfert had installed the engine too close to the envelope. He and his mechanic, Robert Knabe, had made three flights before taking off from Tempelhof Field in Berlin on June 14, 1897. As the dirigi- ble reached about 2,500 feet, vented hydrogen was ignited by the engine’s open-flame ignition system. The Deutschland blew up, killing both crew members. This tragedy—and many subsequent ones—did not diminish German interest in the airship, however.  Airships: Popular and Professional  Two aristocrats now emerged upon the scene. One, Alberto Santos- Dumont, was to popularize dirigible flight in a series of personal  24 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  vehicles. The other, Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin, was to create gigantic airships which would win the heart of his people, establish the first commercial air service in the world, and create a fleet of com- bat-capable Zeppelins which would conduct the world’s first strategic bombing campaign.  Santos-Dumont was a wealthy Brazilian whose indulgent father sent him at the age of eighteen to