pth of his thinking should be noted; he understood that to be successful, a corps of well-trained, well- equipped troops had to support the balloonist and his balloons, and, further, that military commanders had to learn how to take advantage of what the balloon offered.  Lowe planned a demonstration in which he would make a bal- loon ascension near the Smithsonian Castle (on the site of the pre- sent National Air and Space Museum). On the ascension he carried field glasses, telescopes, and a telegraph transmitter and receiver. He made observations at various altitudes from his tethered balloon and transmitted reports of them to the ground, which further trans- mitted them directly to the White House. It was a public relations coup, grand in conception, and well executed on June 1, 1861.  George McDowell Burns, the Washington superintendent of the American Telegraph Corporation, and Herbert C. Robinson, an expert telegrapher, accompanied Lowe. At an altitude of five hun- dred feet, Lowe surveyed the area, and sent the following message to President Lincoln:  Balloon Enterprise June 1, 1861  To the President of the United States: Sir:  This point of observation commands an area nearly fifty miles in diameter. The city, with its girdle of encampments, presents a superb scene. I have pleasure in sending you this first dispatch ever telegraphed from an aerial station, and in acknowledging indebted- ness for your encouragement for the opportunity of demonstrating the science of aeronautics in the military service of the country.  T. S.C. Lowe  It is reported, but not confirmed, that Lincoln dictated a telegraphed reply to Lowe, which, if true, would be the first presi- dential aerial command and control action.  Mindful of senior military sensitivities, Lowe also sent messages to Philadelphia and Alexandria and to members of the Department of War including the corpulent General Winfield Scott. It would be    410 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  interesting to kno