ce and weaponry) wore Iran down and led to a peace that did not significantly alter the pre-war conditions.  The ill use of air power in the Iran and Iraq war would serve as a backdrop to the creation of a new definition of air power in the Persian Gulf War.  The United States Reinvention of Air Power after Vietnam  Earlier passages in this book have called attention to the fact that individuals can often shape the development and exercise of a nation’s air power. Nowhere was this fact more spectacularly true than in the air forces of the United States in the post-Vietnam era.  There were many reasons for this situation, not least of which was the bitterness about the way air power had been misapplied in the Vietnam War. Added to this controversy was the general demand that new aircraft be developed to overcome the deficiencies of those used in Southeast Asia. Thus aircraft such as the McDonnell Douglas F-15 Eagle, General Dynamics F-16 Fighting Falcon, Fairchild Republic A- 10 Thunderbolt II, and Grumman F-14 Tomcat would emerge as a fourth generation of jet aircraft, superior to the latest generation of aircraft of all nations, including those of the Soviet Union.  The demand for new aircraft was complemented by the realization that much of the new technology developed in the later years of the Vietnam War—including precision-guided munitions and equipment to suppress enemy air defenses—could be further exploited. Another capability, stealth, was also in the works, unknown to all but a few.  In the United States Air Force there was a major revolution in leadership underway. The Air Force had been dominated by “bomber generals” for generations, from the very first Chief of Staff, General Carl A. Spaatz, in September 1947, down through the ninth chief, General David C. Jones, in 1974.  Jones was a visionary leader who also had a sure political instinct. He introduced significant organizational changes not only within    Post World War IT Middle-East Conflicts, Terro