tish mixed their aircraft types freely within a squadron, often at the pref- erence of the pilots, many of whom had paid for their own flight  56 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  training and thus had a particular interest in a certain type of air- craft. In regard to their training, a pilot with twenty-five hours would have been considered an experienced veteran.  The British took 63 aircraft to France (including the 24 in the packing crates) and left 116 behind, of which only about 20 were fly- able. The 63 included Blériots, Henry Farmans, Avros, and B.E.8s.  The RFC Blériot XI-2s were very similar to the aircraft that Louis Blériot had flown across the English Channel in 1909, and which had served the Italians in Libya. Most were two-seat aircraft powered by the eighty-horsepower Gnome rotary engine. All had the basic Blériot monoplane configuration, with the uncovered aft fuselage and large “knee-action” undercarriage. The Blériots used wing- warping just as the Wrights had used on their Flyers, and fully loaded, weighed just over nine hundred pounds. There was no fixed armament, but the pilot and/or observer could carry a revolver or a rifle. Top speed was about seventy-five miles per hour, and endurance was from two to three hours."”  The designs of Henry Farman were a perfect example of how the French had seized (stolen is perhaps too harsh a word) upon the basic Wright formula, and then proceeded to improve upon it. The Farman F.20s that went to France were two-seat pusher biplanes, equipped with ailerons and powered by the ubiquitous eighty-horse- power Gnome rotary. They mustered a top speed of about sixty-five miles per hour. The great beauty of the Farman was that it lent itself to experimentation, and when fitted with machine guns or bombs, it promptly engaged the enemy.  The first aircraft of British design to be deployed to France was the Royal Aircraft Factory’s B.E.8. (The use of “B.E.” as a designa- tion was an anomaly that went back to th