mportant aspect of this force was that there were 8,000 to 10,000 Special Forces troops.  The distinguishing characteristic of this coalition army was the fact that up to 8 percent of its strength was invested in special operation forces, operating clandestinely well before the outbreak of the war, and ranging all over the country. They achieved political, military, economic and psychological successes of great importance, so much so that the composition of United States and perhaps British forces will be altered in the future to include many more Special Forces personnel. This extremely high percentage of Special Forces characterizes the newness, the daring, and the ingeniousness of the war plan and strategy as a whole. (Raising the number of Special Forces from an army is difficult without expanding the size of the army itself. The reason is that so few personnel possess the physical and mental standards required by Special Forces.)  The actions of the special operations forces were and continue to be incredible, and the degree with which things “went right” because of them is remarkable. It is difficult to believe that even a nation as large and wealthy as the United States could field so large a force of capable, fit, intelligent warriors. A force approaching 10,000 personnel from the Army, Navy, Air Force, the United Kingdom, Australia and Poland was more than 50 percent larger than the 6,000 used in Afghanistan and very much larger than the number used in the 1991 Gulf War.*  The special operations forces’ diplomatic efforts may have transcended their military triumphs. Surprisingly, the brilliant and ever dangerous SOF campaign resulted in light casualties. The actions of the SOF contributed to Iraqi's confusion, and aided Franks' decision to go in early with ground forces. Avoiding “Shock and Awe” was not only sound but brilliant, for it allowed the full employment of effects-based-operations, while at the same time at least attempting to assuage Arab hatred