hilippe Pétain, to whom was attributed the battle cry “They Shall Not Pass.” Pétain reorganized the French system of supplying munitions and personnel, and, in passing, appointed Major Tricornot de Rose to defeat the Germans in the air. Pétain reportedly told the major, “Rose, sweep the skies clear for me because I am blinded. If they chase us out of the sky, its quite simple—Verdun will be lost.”  The mustachioed Major de Rose called upon the best pilots in the area to form a provisional Groupe de Chasse—with Morane N and Nieuport 11 aircraft. Among the pilots were such aces as Albert Deullin, Georges Guynemer, Charles Nungesser, Georges Boillot, and Raoul Lufberry. The valiant group of American volunteers in the Lafayette Escadrille earned their spurs over Verdun. The provi- sional Groupe de Chasse eventually grew into thirteen permanent Groupes de Chasse, and among them the famous Cigones (Storks.)*  General Pétain issued explicit orders that would serve as a tem- plate for Allied air action. He called for offensive patrols to be car- ried out on a regular basis at times fixed by the commander of the groupe. Pétain explicitly stated that the mission of the escadrilles was    Fighters and Bombers 81  to seek out the enemy, to fight him, and to destroy him.’ By late March, France had attained air superiority over Verdun. When the hideous bloodbath of 700,000 casualties dribbled to an end in June, the French had won complete control of the air, a situation that had great and perhaps decisive influence on the outcome of the battle, for if the Germans had been able to concentrate their air power on the famous Voie Sacrée (Sacred Road), the famous single route from the southeast into Verdun, they might have choked off the supply of artillery munitions that dominated the battle. They failed to do so because they were not yet sufficiently aware of the value of ground attack. Had Verdun occurred in 1918 rather than 1916, they would not have made the same mistake.  The gen