ipline, and common sense of the French Aérostier units. That exception was the Austrian use of balloons in the siege of Vienna in 1849. The American efforts during the Civil War, while relatively large scale, lacked the organization and disci- pline of the first French units.  Had the proper inferences been drawn from the successes the balloon units actually achieved, the conduct and the outcome of the Napoleonic wars might have been far different. But Napoleon, the master technician, who knew well how to use a hill and a telescope, and had called forth such military innovations as food preserved in    400 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  bottles, standard-size cargo wagons, and mobile command posts, was blind to the advantages of balloon observation, and failed to use it as he might have. Had he done so, he might have had a better fix on the position of “Old Forward,” Prussian Field Marshal Gebhard von Blicher, at Waterloo, and the fate of Europe might have been forever altered.  Other Trial Balloons  Advanced thinkers in many armies perceived the intrinsic merits of the balloon, but, too often, those seeking to use the balloon would much underestimate the expense, manpower, and time required to make it effective. This failure would accurately fore- shadow the legislative abuse of air power until the present day, for democratic governments traditionally slash spending on aviation in peacetime, only to become embarrassed by a shortage of air power in time of war. Totalitarian governments also underestimate their requirements, but usually to a lesser degree. And even in the age of superpowers, budget cuts inevitably mean reductions in personnel, force strength, training, and the procurement of spare parts that subsequently handicap air power in time of crisis.  France flirted again with balloons on several occasions, some- times frivolously, as with Lhomond’s 1808 proposal to send a fleet of a hundred balloons to England. Each of them was to be a hundred mete