joint and combined operations can work well only if the concept is adhered to through all levels from the Commander in Chief down to the newest enlisted person. This was achieved in Operation Iraqi Freedom, but it does not guarantee that it will be achieved in future conflicts.  The success of the coalition forces was made possible in part by the huge, multi-billion dollar long-term investments that had been made in such disparate disciplines as space satellite systems, UAVs and UCAVs, night-fighting equipment, stealth technology, aircraft carriers battle groups, which require the permission of no nation to take up station in international waters, and advanced fighters and bombers.  Problems were encountered in Operation Iraqi Freedom, including fratricide, for which no total solution has emerged, and a significant shortage of tanker aircraft for in-flight refueling. Another difficulty, alluded to earlier, is the age and condition of the helicopter fleets. With many helicopters more than thirty years old, maintenance was a continual problem. Procurement of both tankers and helicopters has been deferred time and again over the years in favor of “combat” equipment, but the United States must now face the fact that both of these invaluable fleets must be updated and replaced.  U.S. bombers are few in number and growing older, but existing plans call for the introduction of a new bomber into the fleet in the 2030 time period. In the meantime the United States will be relying on B-52s that will be approaching 70 years of service, B-1Bs which will be about 45 years old, and youngster B-2As of only thirty-eight years of age. This is dangerous in the extreme, for it is entirely possible that stealth technology may be compromised, and the relatively few bombers we possess will be inadequate for the demands placed on them.  Lessons to be Learned by the Public and by Congress  But the armed services are not the only agencies that can learn lessons from Operation Iraqi Freedom.