ts than the rich and noble could provide. When more pilots were required, an enor- mous number of ordinary people were attracted to ballooning, not only because of the danger, but because it was a rich man’s sport, the only one in which they would ever have the chance to participate.  As a new sport, ballooning brought with it the opportunity to set records on almost any flight. Rozier flew a Montgolfier to an alti- tude of 11,700 feet, and distance records were routinely broken, with the Robert brothers and another passenger flying more than one hundred miles from Paris to Beuvry, in the astounding time of six hours and forty minutes.  As always with aviation, record-setting led to equipment improve- ment, and none did this more effectively than Professor Charles and the brothers Robert, for they soon devised a hydrogen-filled balloon equipped with all the features found on such balloons today. These improvements included a valve on the top of the bal- loon, to release gas as necessary; ballast to drop, to make the bal- loon ascend; a rope netting that covered the balloon and to which the passenger basket was attached; and an orifice through which the hydrogen could pass if it became necessary to equalize pressure.  Many more of the Montgolfier (hot-air) and Charles or “Charliere” (hydrogen-filled) balloons were built, and within a few years a series of dazzling flights ensued in Italy, Austria, and even the United States, where the first tethered flight was made in June 1784. So widespread was the enthusiasm that the first regulations govern- ing flight were issued in France in April 1784, prohibiting flights of balloons unless the appropriate safety procedures were followed.  The most compelling flight by far was a cross-Channel flight in 1785 made by one of the first “professional balloonists,” Jean-Pierre    392 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Blanchard, and his financial backer, Dr. John Jeffries. As often hap- pened in early aviation, a conflict betw