s. Thus the German aerial victory, while remarkable, was over the aircraft that the Soviet Union could most easily afford losing.  The new types, along with even more advanced aircraft, would be built in vast numbers in factories created by the most amazing industrial migration in history. The Soviet State Defense Committee ordered the movement of no less than fifteen hundred industrial enterprises from the path of the German attack to the east beyond the Ural Mountains. Entire factories were moved, and a labor force of ten million, suffering incredible hardships, was transported with them. With minimum food, no heat, and long hours, the workers erected the factories on new sites in the east and began building new  The Growth of Air Power, 1941-43 221  aircraft before the roofs were on the buildings. Aircraft manufacture naturally fell during the period of the move, but it was back to nor- mal within ninety days. In 1942, the first full year of their move, the transplanted factories produced more than twenty-five thousand air- craft, far more than the settled factories in Germany were doing.’  The Luftwaffe carried the German Army to the gates of Moscow. After that point it became overextended, and while the Luftwaffe could for many months obtain air superiority on limited sections of the front by means of its admirable mobility, it ultimately was worn down.  Now essentially a fire brigade, the Luftwaffe rushed to whatever section of the front was most threatened. It did so well in some instances, such as the aerial supply of troops trapped at Demyansk, that it was then tasked to the impossible—the aerial supply of the Sixth Army at Stalingrad.  Local German air superiority was maintained through 1943 by means of slightly better aircraft combined with more combat expe- rience, better training, and higher morale. After that point, the Voyenno-vozdushnye sily (VVS), the Soviet Air Force, increasingly held air superiority as it grew in numbers, quality, experience, tra