important than anything else, there had been five months of solid training during the winter.  The concept of a Balloon Corps was so radical that no one in the Union Army seemed to wish to assume responsibility for it. As a con- sequence, its administrative governance was shifted from organiza- tion to organization so that, ultimately, Lowe functioned almost with autonomy. He himself was paid at the approximate rate of a colonel in the Union Army, but was not commissioned in that rank.  The next thirteen months of Lowe’s career can be called a com- plete success if viewed solely from the perspective of the effective operation of balloons in combat on several fronts. On one of these ascents there occurred the first incident of a joint aerial operation, when a United States Navy commodore, Andrew H. Looe, provided one of Lowe’s aeronauts, John Steiner, with a flatboat to use as a launch platform. In exchange, Steiner provided Lowe with infor- mation on the advance of General John Pope’s troops as well as information on where to aim his mortars.  Lowe himself was ordered to support General McClellan, an ardent balloon supporter, in the ill-fated Peninsular Campaign. Using the Custis as transport, Lowe brought four balloons and equip- ment to Fort Monroe, and then took them to the front lines in front of Yorktown. Generals Fitz-John Porter and Daniel Butterfield made several tethered ascensions to gather information. Lowe had to return to Fort Monroe, and, feeling that things were well established, left an old rival, James Allen, in charge of operations.  Porter had made so many ascents that he felt qualified to go aloft without an aeronaut. On April 11, 1862, he rode into the balloon camp at five o’clock in the morning, and jumped in a waiting bal- loon basket and demanded to be raised.  Unfortunately for Porter, instead of the customary three restrain- ing ropes, only one was attached, and it had been weakened earlier when corrosive fluid from the hydrogen generator h