LUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Saddam Hussein ordered Iraqi forces to invade and occupy Kuwait on August 2, 1990, precipitating the Gulf War. The Iraqis confiscated all moveable assets and annexed Kuwait as an integral part of Iraq.  In this situation, the initial response of the United States could only be air power, in the form of forty-eight McDonnell Douglas F- 15C/D Eagles of the First Tactical Fighter Wing. On August 7, 1990, they flew nonstop from Langley Air Force Base, Virginia, to Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, in the longest operational fighter deployment in histo- ry. Six to seven in-flight refuelings were required on the flights, which lasted from fourteen to seventeen hours. Another twenty combat squadrons followed in the next few days.  It was a meaningful show of force, and it signaled to Saddam and to the world that the United States meant business. There was nothing to stop Saddam from invading and seizing Saudi Arabia; his tanks could have covered the two-hundred-mile distance between the Kuwaiti bor- der and Dhahran in less than a day. He still possessed the fourth-largest army and the sixth-largest air force in the world. But he did not move, almost certainly because of the message sent by the F-15s.  President George Bush began a concerted effort to construct an international coalition for what would become known as Operation Desert Shield, which was intended to protect Saudi Arabia and build up the forces necessary to evict Iraq from Kuwait. He also set in motion a modus operandi that would serve well. The president, in consultation with his advisers, would set the objectives, then leave it to the military team headed by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Colin Powell, and the Central Command’s com- mander, General H. Norman Schwarzkopf, to carry it out. The essential air power element of this plan was contained in the deci- sion that there would be a single Joint Forces Air Component Commander (JFACC) to control all air operations.