penly charged that the accidents were “the direct result of the incompetence, criminal negligence and almost treasonable administration of our national defense by the Navy and War Departments.”  It was, at last, too much, and President Coolidge himself pre- ferred charges. To prevent Mitchell from becoming a martyr at his court-martial, Coolidge asked his good friend Dwight Morrow to convene a board to examine American aviation, and at which Mitchell would be invited to testify.  148 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  The Morrow Board began its sessions on September 21, and Mitchell made a very poor impression, confining himself for the most part to reading passages from his book Winged Defense into the record.  Mitchell was court-martialed in Washington, with the trial begin- ning on October 28. During seven weeks of the trial he once again tried to make his case to the public on air power and national defense, but his usual eloquence and charisma wilted under expert cross-exam- ination. On December 17, he was found guilty of insubordinate con- duct and making statements that were prejudicial to good order and military discipline. The sentence was suspension from duty and for- feiture of pay and allowances for five years. Coolidge gracefully eased this sentence, allowing Mitchell half-pay. The president was content with the way things had played out, for on December 3, the Morrow Board had made a report that curiously undercut Mitchell’s personal position but advanced many of his ideas. The Morrow Board said, among other things, that the United States was still protected by its geographical position from attack by air, and that there should not be a Department of National Defense with co-equal Army, Navy, and Air Force elements. Instead, it stated that the Army and the Navy should retain control over their own air forces. It was, therefore, a vindication of the status quo, just as Coolidge and the Navy wished. Despite this decision, legislators drew inference