SAF Chief of Staff, and Premier Nikita Khrushchev found themselves in agreement about the importance of the American nuclear capability. Khrushchev stated, “About twenty percent of all Strategic Air Command planes, carrying atom- ic and hydrogen bombs, were kept aloft around the clock.” The thought of these aircraft, orbiting on his borders, had contributed to his backing away from war. LeMay stated that the success of the American effort was due to SAC’s superior nuclear power and President Kennedy’s obvious willingness to use it, if required.'* The effectiveness of United States nuclear power was further augmented by the fact that arrangements had been made to conduct a war from an airborne command post if required.  Aftermath and Prelude  The Cuban Missile Crisis was the first instance in which aerospace power played such an important role in first precipitating and then resolving a military confrontation. The most important effect of aerospace power on history was of course the avoidance of a nuclear exchange. The very success of the United States efforts carried with- in it the seeds of a future disaster, one that would see aerospace power greatly expanded, but at the same time, thwarted by the ill- founded conclusions drawn by the same men who had participated in the decisions affecting the Cuban Missile Crisis.  President Kennedy’s advisors included Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara, National Security Advisor McGeorge Bundy, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Maxwell D. Taylor. Pleased with the success of their counsel on Cuba, they came away with a very  314 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  inflated sense of their own value in managing the crisis, and more important, with confidence in the techniques used to respond to the behavior of the enemy. This led them to confuse strategy with crisis management, two very different disciplines. They would give advice using these techniques in reaching their conclusions on how to deal with the North V