bling Act of March 24, 1933, had dictatorial powers. Thus it was that while Great Britain fought the depression by cutting back on defense spending, Germany fought the depression by spending billions of marks rearming.* Great Britain would be almost fatally weakened by not ending the Ten Year Rule until 1933, when it was already in error by a margin of four years.  The restrictions on Great Britain’s budget would dominate the structure and the doctrine of the Royal Air Force through 1937. Even when the threat became clear, and funds were budgeted, the British economy was so weak that the manufacturers could not gear up for the production rates already established in Germany. After 1937, the disposition of the budget, and hence the structure of the RAF and its war-making capability, would be favorably influenced by the national policies and by advances in technology that had been fostered by a few farsighted individuals.  Fortunately for the RAF, when Stanley Baldwin became Prime Minister again on June 7, 1935, he had appointed Philip Cunliffe- Lister (later Viscount Swinton) to be Secretary of State for Air, with the charge to modernize and expand the RAF. Swinton selected top- notch personnel to assist him.    Growth of Air-Power Theory 133  Great Britain was at a psychological disadvantage, for it had the memories of German bombing in World War I combined with the oft-cited 1932 admonition of Prime Minister Baldwin that “the bomber would always get through.” Two phrases, “a bolt from the blue” and “the knockout blow,” also gained currency. These referred to the prospect that a sudden surprise attack by air might “knock out” London and/or Paris.  RAF exercises during the mid-1930s, using the incredibly slow Handley Page Heyford, an ungainly biplane with a cruising speed of 115 miles per hour, proved Baldwin’s point conclusively. The inter- ceptors that failed to intercept were also biplanes, armed with small- caliber machine guns. In stark contrast, Germany was fie