e invariable North Vietnamese reaction to a bombing halt was to accelerate repairs to bomb damage and to increase the flow of men and goods to the South as much as possible.  The next phase of Rolling Thunder began in January 1966 and lasted until August. This time, acting on the advice of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS), the attack was focused on the petroleum resources of the North. Although many North Vietnamese installa- tions were destroyed, the campaign itself was a failure because of the wealth of oil available to the North from its allies.  As Rolling Thunder rolled on, reputations began to fade, and faith was lost at the highest levels that the war could be won. The JCS was now given more weight in target selection, and it recommend- ed attacks on what Bomber Harris had termed “panacea targets’”— ports, locks and dams, industry, and the power system. McNamara, growing indifferent and aware that Johnson was losing confidence in him and in the conduct of the war, acquiesced. The president approved attacks only on industry and the power system, neither of which was as vital to North Vietnam as they had been to Germany. Attacks on ports would have been far more successful, but there  332 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  were Red Chinese and Soviet vessels in the ports, and Johnson did not dare take the risk. It has been pointed out that the effort against Haiphong might have been successful if only the dredge that cleared the channels for shipping had been sunk, but not even this relatively safe option was selected.  All through Rolling Thunder, Secretary McNamara believed that North Vietnam would be made aware that supporting insurgency in the South was too expensive to continue. He reported that for the period of February 1965 through October 1966, Rolling Thunder had cost the North Vietnamese an estimated $150 million. This would have been a great expense for an impoverished country, if the losses in trucks, rice, oil, SAMs, and everything else not b