ace, not by the preemptive attacks that the early prophets had deemed essential, but by promising such total retaliation that any would-be attacker was deterred. But this mutual deterrence did not apply to the smaller wars that occurred with bewildering fre- quency all around the world. In these smaller conflicts tactical air power still had to win air superiority over the battlefield so that actions in support of ground forces could be flown with impunity. Thus it was that both the USAF and the Soviet Air Force had to build up strategic and tactical forces to handle both eventualities.  In the same year that LeMay left SAC to become Vice Chief of Staff, there occurred the most significant aerospace event of the sec- ond part of the twentieth century—the orbiting of a satellite by the Soviet Union. On October 4, 1957, the little silver Sputnik sent an innocuous but ominous beeping message to the world that every- thing had changed. The Soviet Union had clearly surpassed the United States in the technical field of rocketry, and it was obvious that the technology that could place a satellite in orbit could also create an intercontinental ballistic missile that could place nuclear warheads halfway around the globe. And, on the off chance that anyone had    300 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  missed the obvious, Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev gloatingly repeated that fact on several occasions.  In today’s world where hosts of satellites have every country under constant surveillance, it is difficult to recall just how totally uninformed the United States was about the Soviet Union in the pre- satellite years. Soviet security was airtight, the borders were guarded, few foreign visitors were admitted, and those who were admitted were kept under constant scrutiny. The Soviet Union practiced dis- information with great skill, even to the point that there were no reli- able tourist maps of Moscow or Leningrad. The only available maps were those made from photos ta