he Department of Defense was justifiably proud of the buildup in strength of its missile forces, but it was completely in the dark as to how well the Soviet Union was progressing. Soviet security was vir- tually impenetrable, and no one had any verifiable information on Soviet strategic forces.  Soviet Air Power  The Soviet Air Force had been substantially reorganized after World War II under the leadership of a new Commander in Chief, Marshal of Aviation Konstantin A. Vershinin. Stalin had imprisoned the previous commander, Marshal of Aviation Alexander A. Nivikov, on the usual charges of treachery.  The Soviet Union had different requirements from those of the United States, and its air force was structured in a different manner. About 857 of the Tu-4 Bull bombers became the basis for Long-Range Aviation, a rough counterpart to the Strategic Air Command, but one that never achieved the same degree of proficiency. The Soviet Union was always defense-minded, with the result that the Fighter Aviation of the Defense Forces was established to intercept incoming aircraft. But close air support remained dear to the Soviet Union’s heart, and the Frontal Aviation division was dedicated to it. The Soviet Navy had expanded considerably, and although it still had no carriers, it required a force, Naval Aviation, to operate with it. The final element of the Soviet Air Force was the Aviation of the Airborne Troops.*  Marshal Vershinin’s first task was to bring the Red Air Force to the technological level of its potential adversaries, the United States and Britain. At the end of World War II, the Red Air Force had been even more thorough in its exploitation of German engineering than had the United States. The Soviet Union did not demobilize to the extent that the United States did, and it maintained the production of military aircraft at the rate of ten thousand per year at a time when the United States was building fewer than a thousand combat aircraft annually. Much of the pr