ad moderately improved its fighter force with the introduction of the Bf 109F, perhaps the best of the long Messerschmitt series. It was also operating the latest models of the same types of bombers that had proved inadequate over England. They would initially prove adequate, but fail in the long run against improved Soviet air power.  Hitler had promised that he had only to “kick down the door” of the Soviet Union and the entire structure would collapse. Initially it seemed that he was correct, and even so hardened a pessimist as General Franz Halder, Chief of the General Staff, would say on July 3, 1941, that, “It is thus probably no overstatement to say that the Russian Campaign has been won in the space of two weeks.”*  The German successes on the ground outdid anything previously seen in the war, and the Luftwaffe kept pace, destroying more than five thousand Russian aircraft by October 5. Much of the German success stemmed from the lack of Soviet Air Force leadership. So many senior leaders had been killed in Stalin’s bloody purges that those remaining were ill-trained and so frightened of Stalin that death in battle was preferable to taking the chance on making a wrong decision.  The German attack caught the Soviets at a strangely opportune moment in their rearming process, for most of the aircraft that were destroyed in the air or on the ground were obsolescent. The Germans were opposed for the most part by the same Polikarpov I-15 and I-16 fighters that had fought in Spain. There were many new Soviet designs coming along, however, including the Yakovlev Yak-1, Mikoyan and Guryevich MiG-3, Lavochkin LaGG-3, Petlyakov Pe-2, and the formidable Ilyushin Il-2 Shturmovik. These were available in relatively small quantities when the war started and suffered some losses. Thus the German aerial victory, while remarkable, was over the aircraft that the Soviet Union could most easily afford losing.  The new types, along with even more advanced aircraft, would be built