ese fought their way swiftly down through Southeast Asia. The Japanese invasion forces would operate under the cover of carriers, but as soon as they had cap- tured or made an airfield, naval aircraft would begin to operate out of shore bases. The technique enabled the Japanese, with relatively few aircraft and few troops, to defeat the Allied forces in a leap-frog sequence of battles that carried Japan almost to Australia.  In creating the carrier task force, Yamamoto had authored a new form of naval warfare, one that would serve Japan well for six bril- liant months of conflict. Yet in one of the least remarked upon but most important anomalies of the war, Yamamoto had inadvertently forced his enemy, the United States, to do the same. In this case it was not the force of his personality that effected the change. Instead it was the fact that while his carrier strike force sank the American battleship fleet at Pearl Harbor, it did not sink the United States car- riers, which were, by chance, not in port. The carriers were thus the only weapon (besides submarines) available to the Americans, who quickly applied them in a series of ripostes that led in June 1942, to the Battle of Midway. These successes would lead to a mammoth American building program for aircraft carriers and aircraft on a scale that provided true air power in its most lethal form, and which would defeat Japan in almost every subsequent encounter.  The United States was in shock at the long series of defeats from an enemy that had previously been given little respect. Now, how- ever, the Japanese military seemed invincible, and its aircraft, such as  The Growth of Air Power, 1941-43 227  the Mitsubishi A6M Zero, were perceived to be the best in the world. President Franklin D. Roosevelt wanted to do something for American morale, and called for a strike on Japan.  The result was the April 18, 1942, attack of sixteen North American B-25s. Led by then-Lieutenant Colonel Jimmy Doolittle, the twin-engin