raudulent claims to patents he did not own. Langley was the most culpable of all, a man of sci- ence who systematically ignored the scientific approach, and was content to scale up what was essentially a model airplane into a design that had no provision for control, was not stressed for either its catapult launch or flight, had a bizarre launch mechanism, and made no provision for landing. Langley topped himself by entrust- ing this impossible concatenation of anomalies to a Charles Manly who had created a brilliant engine for him. The problem was that Manly had never flown before, not even a single gliding flight. Manly had no means of controlling the Aerodrome, as Langley called it, and    28 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  because there was no provision for alighting, was condemned to be submerged immediately upon landing. Fortunately, two crashes yielded no manslaughter charges.  Lilienthal was the most important of this group, and did con- tribute the concept of a hang glider, controllable by shifting the weight of the pilot. Yet this method placed an inherent limitation on the size and weight of his craft, and ultimately resulted in the crash that killed him. Lilienthal also contributed a great deal of data, not all of it accurate, but a starting point.  It does not get any better. Hiram Maxim, father of the famous machine gun that bore his name and an immensely wealthy indus- trialist, built a huge machine with a powerful engine and absolute- ly no means of controlling it if it happened to get airborne. San Jose’s favorite son, John Montgomery, made very dubious and unsubstantiated claims about gliding flight, then sent another man and himself to their deaths in gliders that were demonstrably not airworthy. Gustave Whitehead made fanciful claims that could never be corroborated about an aircraft of dubious strength and lift that had one mysterious engine for ground run, and another mys- terious engine for flight.  Other than Lilienthal’s efforts, wi