sion, dropping 5,000 tons of supplies to the more than 63,000 prisoners of war in camps in Japan, China, and Korea.  The great triumph of air power was that it averted the necessity for an invasion. Estimates vary widely over the cost of an invasion. Some scenarios say that there would have been hundreds of thou- sands of American casualties, while others say that there would have been “merely” tens of thousands. Most agree that millions of Japanese would have died resisting the invasion as they had resisted invasions of all the island bases, and that, inevitably, the newly com- pleted third atomic bomb would have been dropped before the end of August. There are two significant points that are often over- looked, and which themselves make an airtight case for dropping the atomic bomb. The first of these is that the rice crop failure and the inability to import food spelled death by starvation for as many as 6,000,000 Japanese if an invasion had been necessary. The second is that the Japanese still held millions of nationals from other coun- tries under their tight military control, and they still exploited them with war-crime behavior. Had the war lasted another six months— as it surely would have if an invasion had been required—hundreds of thousands and perhaps millions more Chinese, Vietnamese, Burmese, Indonesians, and others would have died under Japan’s cruel rule. (In account after account, Japanese behavior became    True Air Superiority, Then Absolute Air Supremacy, 1944-45 283  quite correct when the surrender was announced, the captors at long last realizing that there might be reprisals.)  The Influence of Air Power in World War II  It belabors the obvious to say that air power was influential on his- tory during World War II, but it is instructive to recapitulate some of the most important aspects of the phenomenon, with particular regard to their effect upon the future.  First and foremost, incorrect ideas about air power led to political miscalculatio