e difference between the Wrights and Langley as aircraft designers, i.e., a successful launch system for four dollars, versus an unsuccessful one for $20,000.  Designing and building a machine to their own remarkably exact specifications was not enough; it was also necessary to be able to fly it. Fortunately, both Orville and Wilbur had made hundreds of glid- er flights in the essentially similar glider of 1902 and had taught themselves how to fly. It was an unimaginably important asset that, surprisingly, none of their competitors had considered necessary.  The degree of the Wrights’ skill was evident in the fact that they did in fact make four successful flights in the face of high winds on December 17, 1903, the first of 120 feet and the last of 852 feet. No one else in the world could have actually flown the skittish Wright Flyer, for no one else had practiced so much nor knew it so well. Ironically, there is considerable question whether a well-trained modern pilot could fly an exact replica of the Flyer, so demanding are its control requirements. (The question may be answered by  Fledgling Wings 31  the time this book is published, for exacting reproductions of the Kitty Hawk Flyer are being built, and a comprehensive attempt is being made to learn to fly it via the use of gliders and simulators.)  The Wright brothers’ conviction that they were ten years ahead of all competitors would prove ultimately to be their undoing, for things change. They would continue to improve their product and extend their lead over everyone through 1905, when they created the first practical airplane in history. Incredibly, the Wrights them- selves elected not to fly again from October 1905 to May 1908, con- cerned that someone might see the flights and steal their secrets from them.  But time, personality, and events would work against them, and as word of their achievements leaked out to a largely disbelieving public, competitors began to gain on them.  The Wrights were extremel