ed Gibraltar of the Pacific, that an invasion would have been very difficult. On February 17, 1944, Vice Admiral Marc A. Mitscher’s powerful Task Force 58 (TF 58) attacked with its fifteen carriers and 956 aircraft. In a series of smashing blows, it eliminated Japanese air power and sank 200,000 tons of merchant shipping. On February 22, Mitscher shifted his attack to the Marianas, destroying more than 150 aircraft and sinking many ships. In less than a week, Mitscher  272 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  had demonstrated that his sea-borne air power could dominate Japanese land-based air power. His success confirmed a previously made decision to bypass Truk, and not invade. Abandoned without air power, Truk was changed from a fortress to a prison, with a gar- rison Japan could not evacuate, reinforce, or supply.  Japan was now in a position where its last hope of defending its remaining island outposts such as Saipan was the almost suicidal choice of seeking out an engagement to destroy the United States fleet. The Imperial Navy was still powerful in prewar terms, for it possessed five fleet carriers, four smaller carriers, five battleships, thirteen cruisers, and forty-two other ships. The battleships includ- ed the most powerful in the world, the 68,000-ton Musashi and Yamato, each armed with nine powerful (if not technically superior) 18.1-inch guns. In Japanese war games, this massive fleet always per- formed admirably—real warfare would prove to be quite different. The Japanese also possessed 222 fighters (late models of the Zero), 113 dive-bombers, and 95 torpedo bombers. These planes, however, were not flown by veteran experts as they had been in the first days of the war—instead there was a mere sprinkling of experienced leaders among a mass of poorly trained pilots.  The Japanese also planned to use 100 land-based planes in their attack on the United States fleet, operating them out of the Marianas. Mitscher took care of these by launching a preemp