d more impor- tant, raise money for, the air services. The model was the German Flottenverein (Navy League) that was founded in 1898 and grew to have 1.1 million members by 1914. The Navy League’s push for German naval equality with Great Britain was an extremely important factor in the great naval rearmament race prior to the First World War, and may be said to have been an important causal issue for that war. Besides raising money to buy dreadnoughts, its jingoistic-anglophobic publications conditioned the German public, not just to the inevitabil- ity of war with Great Britain but the desirability of it.  The German Navy League was far larger than any of its aviation counterparts. The corresponding German Air Fleet League had 3,000 members by 1909 and 12,500 by 1912. But aviation was new, and the Air Fleet League often recruited important industrial and political figures and attracted some extremely important people, including Hermann von der Lieth-Thomsen, the architect of Germany’s Army Air Service, and his superior, the redoubtable General Erich Ludendorff. The latter, with Field Marshal Paul von Hindenburg, would virtually rule Germany from 1916 on, all the while giving tremendous support to the German Air Force.  In many countries, activist political organizations, such as the German Air Fleet League, were supplemented by more popular movements, e.g., the German National Aviation Fund. Other coun- tries had similar sets of organizations, and these spurred both pop- ular and governmental interest in aviation, doing it with the hard cash of the time. These groundswells of enthusiasm for aviation were led by powerful personalities who focused popular opinion on prac- tical results such as the purchase of aircraft or the training of pilots. Thus in Germany, Prince Heinrich of Prussia was the well-liked fig- ure who led a drive in 1912 that netted the National Aviation Fund 7.2 million marks. These were used to purchase 62 aircraft and trained no less than 162 pi