se they lacked essential components such as radios, instruments, and armament. Perhaps most significant of all, the French Air Force had only 67 percent of the pilots it required, and morale was not high among those who were available.  The RAF contribution was better in only one respect, its fighters, but it was on the whole still no match for the Luftwaffe. When the Battle of France opened in May, the BAFF had four squadrons of the vulnerable Bristol Blenheims for reconnaissance, four squadrons of Hawker Hurricanes (one still in the process of con- verting from the biplane Gloster Gladiator), eight squadrons of the Fairey Battle light bombers for what proved to be suicidal ground attack work, and five squadrons of Westland Lysanders for tactical reconnaissance.” Just how unsuitable all but the Hurricanes were would be revealed in the opening days of the campaign. But before this happened, air power would give a dramatic demonstration of its life-or-death importance in the campaigns in Denmark and Norway.  The Scandinavian Campaigns  Air power was decisive in the two northern campaigns, which broke the pleasant if unreal quiet of the phony war. Oddly enough, it took an entirely new war to focus attention on Denmark and    202 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Norway. The Soviet Union invaded Finland on November 30, 1939, expecting to achieve an easy victory. The Finns fought back with skill and tenacity, winning the admiration of the world and con- firming Hitler’s impression that the Soviet Army would be no match for German forces. (Later, in the depths of the 1942 Russian winter, the record of Hitler’s table talk would reveal his gloomy speculation that the poor performance of the Russian troops had been “cam- ouflage” to deceive him as to their real capability.)  The sheer inequity of the contest—the mighty Soviet Union against tiny Finland—aroused public indignation in France and Britain. The two governments were pressured to intervene, and Winston Churc