ain that the war in Vietnam could never have been won, no matter how air power had been applied. When one considers the results of Linebacker II, and the possible  The Cold War, 1963-73 341  outcome of its extension over even a few weeks, it is difficult to accept the latter argument.  Conclusion  For the purposes of this book, the Vietnam War has to be regard- ed as an example of the way in which the misuse of air power influ- enced history. The most unfortunate humanitarian aspect is that the failure to use air power properly resulted in the consignment of all of the people of Vietnam to the Communist camp, keeping them there long after the Communist system had imploded in the Soviet Union. Now, as Red China moves more toward a capitalistic eco- nomic system, Vietnam remains with Cuba as a vestigial remnant of the failed Communist system.    Chapter Eleven  Post World War II Middle-East Conflicts, Terror, and the Modern Air War  The Israeli Defense Force Air Force (IDF/AF) was quite literally born in battle, and while it did not have decisive effect on the 1948-49 war of independence that established Israel as a sovereign state, it did dictate how Israel would subsequently develop and use its air force. The exercise of that air force’s power would become a determining factor in the subsequent history of the Middle East, and indeed, the world. It would not only influence the action of Israel’s Arab enemies, it would become of considerable and sometimes overriding impor- tance to France, Britain, the United States, and the Soviet Union. In addition, the technological by-products of the Israeli Air Force would be sought by many nations, including China and North Korea.  At the birth of its independence, Israel was less than 270 miles long at its extreme points, and less than fifteen miles wide at its nar- rowest point. This diminutive size posed almost insuperable prob- lems for its ground forces, which could be attacked anywhere around its perimeter, but offered a t