. After all the defeats, it was a bright moment for the Allies, proving that with the Luftwaffe taken out of the equation, the German Army could be beaten. Unfortunately, on May 10, the Allies were forced to abandon Narvik and all of Norway because of the German onslaught against the Low Countries and France.  The Air Battle of France  On May 10, 1940, Hitler stunned the world by initiating the inva- sion of Luxembourg, Belgium, the Netherlands, and France. Air power proved to be the sharp edge of the German sword that ripped through Allied defenses with a stunning ferocity.  The Fihrer had wanted to attack France in the fall of 1939, as soon as possible after the defeat of Poland. The reluctance of his army leaders and the worst winter in decades caused the attack to be post- poned, but allowed a brilliant shift in planning. Instead of the varia- tion of the tired Schlieffen plan the Army intended to use, Hitler sanctioned a suggestion by General Erich von Manstein to thrust through the Ardennes forest. This would prove to be a masterstroke.  The delay in the attack was fortunate for the Luftwaffe, enabling it to make up for the losses in aircraft and personnel incurred in the Polish campaign. With an immense industrial effort, the Luftwaffe also acquired the stocks of bombs, fuel, and equipment needed for a major campaign in the West.  It was not obvious at the time, but during the interval between the fall of Poland and the opening battle in France, the German High Command made two errors that would have critical conse- quences later. The first of these decisions was that the Luftwaffe was  The Search for Air Power, World War IT, 1939-41 205  appropriately sized for Germany’s war aims at about 4,500 front-line aircraft, and that the current production rate of about 9,000 aircraft per year was adequate. Of the 9,000, only about half were combat types. Either unknown to the Luftwaffe High Command, or ignored for political reasons, British aircraft production had al