Major Paul I. (“Pappy”) Gunn, who was a master of unorthodox field modifications, a talent sorely needed in the early days of the war.    274 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Under Kenney, the Fifth Air Force rocked Japanese shipping with low-level skip-bombing attacks, and destroyed Japanese aircraft on the ground with parafrag (parachute-retarded fragmentation) bombs. The innovative Pappy Gunn supervised the installation of seventy-five- millimeter cannon in the nose of North American B-25s for anti-ship- ping work. In March 1943, the Fifth, working with the Royal Australian Air Force, had been decisive in the Battle of the Bismarck Sea. The Japanese had been desperate to reinforce their army in New Guinea, and sent eight transports and five escort ships to do so. All were sunk, and Tokyo wrote off the Japanese Army in New Guinea.  The reason for the triumph was more than just having air power available. Kenney had seen to it that there had been many practice missions for just such an eventuality, and the Battle of the Bismarck Sea proved conclusively that naval operations in the face of enemy air superiority were tantamount to suicide.  With successes like these behind him, Kenney became a close strate- gic advisor to MacArthur in the invasion of the Philippines where MacArthur's drive from the south and Nimitz’s drive across the central Pacific coincided in the fall of 1944. There American naval air power and the USAAF decided the outcome of the land campaign.  The earliest efforts of American air power in the Pacific theater had come with the work of Claire Chennault and his American Volunteer Group (AVG), the famous Flying Tigers, in China, defending the Burma Road. There, beginning in December 1941, Chennault had the satisfaction of seeing the pursuit tactics he had advocated without success at the Air Corps Tactical School proved in combat. The AVG was absorbed into the USAAF on July 4, 1942, with Chennault ultimately becoming a major general command