, but the armor provided welcome protection from small arms fire.  The German Army became very proficient in the employment of these close support aircraft, and a captured German document    Fighters and Bombers 87  published by the Department of War on February 26, 1918, reveals how sophisticated they had become. The document, entitled “The Infantry Aeroplane and the Infantry Balloon,” states, “The infantry aeroplane (contact patrol) is, if there is proper cooperation with the troops, the most reliable and rapid means of reconnaissance and of obtaining information on the battlefield.”  The document goes on to outline the duties and employment of the infantry aircraft, with flights arriving over the lines before dawn, using its own machine guns to suppress enemy ground fire. Flights made during the day were to make approaches by indirect methods, making sure not to compromise the direction or position of a German infantry assault. The Schlachstaffeln aircraft were urged to fly as low as possible, for “assembly of troops in trenches can be overlooked by even a trained eye if the flight is made at a height of over 300 meters.”  The instructions were specific that all crews in a Schlachstaffel be well trained in the mission. Coordination with the infantry was emphasized, and some offensive battles were planned which required split-second arrival of the attack aircraft to support German storm troops assaulting a position." All of these ideas found expression in the German Luftwaffe of World War II.  After the failure of the great German offensives in the spring and early summer of 1918, the Schlachstaffeln had to be used more and more in a defensive role where they proved themselves to be equal- ly invaluable.  The British also recognized the importance of close air support, which they conducted for the most part with Sopwith Camels, S.E.5s, and Bristol F.2B fighters. The de Havilland D.H. 5 was intro- duced in 1917 as a ground attack plane, but was unpopular for a numb