e full develop- ment of drop tanks for the P-38, P-47, and the P-51, which was only beginning to come into service. There were many delays, as succes- sively larger tanks were tested and deployed, but the effects were remarkable. The P47, suitably modified so that it could carry two 150- gallon drop tanks, could reach out to 450 miles—that is, as far as Hannover. With the same two tanks, the P-38 could accompany the bombers for more than 500 miles—all the way to Berlin. And perhaps even more remarkable, the P-51, with an additional internal tank and two 75-gallon drop tanks, could also range out for 500 miles.  These range figures are for aircraft flying relatively close escort to the bombers—the same erroneous tactic used by the Germans in the Battle of Britain. In the effort to extend fighter coverage, other tactics were evolved, including phasing the arrival of the aircraft in  238 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  waves at designated points along the bombers’ routes. This tech- nique extended the effective range of the P-38 and the P-51 to 600 miles—a remarkable increase in just two years."  Once the tanks were dropped, the P-47 and P-38 could handle the average German fighter plane; when the P-51 “was clean,” it was clearly superior to most German fighters. But the arrival of this true example of a long-range escort fighter would be delayed until well into 1943, at grievous cost to the USAAF.  Offsetting the major errors in assuming an “invincible” bomber formation and relegating fighters to interceptor work was the remarkable work done by a small team of ACTS alumni. It consist- ed of Colonel Harold L. George, Major Laurence S. Kuter, Major Haywood S. Hansell Jr., and Lieutenant Colonel Kenneth Walker. All would become general officers. Walker taught the credo, “A well-organized, well-planned, and well-flown air force attack will constitute an offensive that cannot be stopped.” He was killed in just such an attack on Rabaul on January 5, 1943, and was a