d by the thought of them or their countrymen being destroyed, but in fact welcome death as martyrdom.  Brilliantly employed air power to date has been able to eject the Taliban from power and to hound the al-Qaeda from cave to cave, causing casualties and destroying supplies. It has not as yet been able to influence the nations that support the terrorists to cease that sup- port. It is possible that if air strikes like those conducted in Afghanistan were extended against countries supporting terrorism (for example Iraq, Iran, Syria, and Lebanon), such support might be diminished.    364 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Unfortunately, this action is unlikely. While surgical air strikes can take out command and control centers, oil production facilities, and so forth, they cannot extinguish an international extremist Muslim con- spiracy that seems to support, actively or passively, the terrorist move- ment. The most obvious analogy is the Vietnam War, where technolo- gy was thrown against the myriad porters on the Ho Chi Minh Trail and failed. Against a Muslim terrorism that is now growing from Morocco on the Atlantic across the world to the Philippines and Indonesia, and is imbedded in Western countries as well, a purist, surgical technology intended to harm only practicing terrorists, simply cannot win.  The ideal solution would be a twofold miracle: the resolution of the Palestinian problem with a meaningful settlement among the Arabs and Israel, and a booming new economy that would lift Muslim nations from their fatal poverty toward a less violently con- frontational view of life. Either miracle is unlikely, and it may be assumed that two are impossible.  The greatest question is whether containment, which served in the half-century Cold War against Communism, will work against terror- ism. One would hope that the West, led by the United States in align- ment with the United Nations, will somehow muddle through perhaps decades of threats, of inconvenience,