a board for a roof, he would go on working, sustained by vaporous propaganda on “miracle weapons.”  It was in Hitler’s Berlin bunker where for the first time a totally unexpected aspect of the influence of air power on history mani- fested itself. All of the air-power philosophers had assumed that when air power had reached its peak and wreaked havoc upon an enemy nation, the populace would rise up, and the enemy govern- ment would admit its defeat. Quite the contrary happened. The peo- ple did not rise up because a totalitarian government still had severe reprisal methods that included the slaughter of entire families for any ill-considered action by one member. And the Nazi leaders would not contemplate surrender, no matter how utterly hopeless the situation, because they preferred to remain in power, skulking in  270 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  an underground shelter, for as many more days or weeks as possible. Thus even when air power had been demonstrated absolutely, when the war was totally and obviously lost, maniacal leaders permitted thousands of ordinary soldiers and civilians to die just to delay their own fate a little longer.  The bombers had run out of worthwhile targets in April, and were stood down or assigned to more positive duties such as drop- ping food supplies to starving citizens of Holland. The fighters were still in demand, however, for die-hard German contingents were still attempting to slow the Allied progress, and it made sense to use the freely available air power to eliminate them rather than lose lives in a frontal assault. The last fighter-versus-fighter engagements took place on May 8, 1945, the day of Germany’s surrender.  Air power had been demonstrated at last over Germany. Not even the most avid advocate could claim the victory for air power alone, but not even the most stubborn anti-air-power critic could deny that its role had been essential. The German Army was generally admit- ted to be the best in the world, an