xtraordinarily accurate calculations for the forces required. It stated that 13,000 medium, heavy, and very heavy bombers would be required worldwide—at a time when there were still only a hand- ful of B-17s in operation.  Further, after decades during which the USAAF had fewer than 2,000 operational aircraft, the plan called for a total of 63,500 oper- ational aircraft including trainers, reconnaissance, light bombers, dive-bombers, cargo planes, and so forth, and not counting replace- ments. After years when the personnel strength of the Air Corps numbered only in the tens of thousands, Kuter calculated the man- power requirements at 2,160,000 men, more than Pershing’s entire AEF in World War I.  There were other, even more mind-boggling projections, includ- ing the loss each month of 20 percent of the aircraft and 15 percent of the personnel. Fortunately, while the aircraft and personnel requirements were very accurate, the loss projections were not.  These projections, which would have been considered sheer lunacy only twelve months earlier, were accepted in September 1941 and became the basis for awarding contracts to industry. This action was a tribute both to senior American military commanders and to Roosevelt’s leadership of a country not yet unified by the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.  Not exactly coincidentally, acceptance of the AWPD/1 projec- tions meant that an intensive strategic bombing offensive was now the policy not only of ACTS, but also of the United States. And, as far-fetched as the calculations seemed at the time, when the war was over, it was found that the AWPD/1 had estimated the number of combat aircraft within 2 percent and the total number of officers and men within 5'/2 per cent.”  On September 9, 1942, responding again to a request from President Roosevelt, a similar group prepared AWPD/42, Requirement for Air Ascendancy. This action reflected a change in doctrinal thinking in which the air campaign was no longer to win the war bu