Linebacker II.  Operation Rolling Thunder  The administration’s confidence in the air power of the USAF and the United States Navy was great, so that very high goals were set. President Johnson expected Rolling Thunder to do three things. It was first of all to help create a viable state in South Vietnam, no easy task considering the corruption and political infighting that was endemic there. It was, by means of the restrictions placed upon it, to avoid pro- voking a war with either or both the USSR and Red China. And finally, always a politician, Johnson decreed that it was to be of such a con- strained nature as not to excite the concerns of the American public.  Johnson’s military eminence grise, Secretary McNamara, thought that the president’s objectives could be met by Rolling Thunder because it would raise morale in South Vietnam and make sustain- ing the flow of supplies from North Vietnam too expensive. It is worth pointing out here that neither Johnson nor McNamara thought of air power in terms of defeating the North Vietnamese. It was the most critical error they could have made.  The plan for Rolling Thunder was subtle. The flow of supplies to South Vietnam would be struck at the southernmost part of North Vietnam. If the flow did not stop, heavier strikes, farther north would be made. This gradual increase in intensity was to signal the enemy that he should stop sending supplies south, or things would get worse. It became a characteristic of United States policy that in    330 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  any attack planned on North Vietnam, civilian policymakers select- ed the weakest option available.’  There were many major faults with the plan. First of all, it for- feited the classic military advantages of both surprise and intensity in the attacks. Second, it assumed that the enemy could be bluffed, an assumption for which there was no basis to be found in the pre- vious years of successful fighting. Third, Secretary McNamara and his ci