AC became rigid and doctrinaire and thus far less likely to produce the next generation of planners who would be receptive to the advent of space-related weaponry and to new ideas in management. Had the reverse been true, had fighter advocates dominated for all those years, it would have been the bomber advocates who came up with the new and the revolutionary ideas. And it may well be that this very process is working now, with new ideas for the employment of bombers beginning to take precedence over the fighter.  General Wilbur (“Bill”) Creech was the fighter pilot who orches- trated the revolution in Air Force management, demonstrating his technique as Commander, Tactical Air Command. Creech preached decentralization of management to obtain the maximum flexibility, responsiveness, and feeling of “ownership” by the air and ground crews. He advocated obtaining both leadership and commitment from everyone at every level. Finally, he insisted on planning for    354 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  the highest quality in every action from painting barracks to attack- ing a target.  Bill Creech also led in military tactics, insisting on ultrarealistic training and emphasizing that modern antiaircraft artillery and SAM defenses made the previous “go-low” tactics obsolete. He insist- ed instead on the development of means to take out enemy SAMs in the first attack so that subsequent aircraft could operate at either high or low altitudes according to their assessment of the target. These tactics would pay off in the Persian Gulf War, and Creech would be recognized as their author by no less a person than General Charles A. (“Chuck”) Horner, the air commander.’  Air-Power Philosophers in the Modern Era  The first two generations of air-power philosophers were relative- ly few in number, and for the most part practitioners rather than academics. The first generation included Douhet, Trenchard, and Mitchell whose concepts were put into use in one form or another by mi