repower. The tactics used by the Dutch fleet against the French and English at the battle of Southwold Bay on June 7, 1672, were not substantially different from those used by the Spanish against the English almost 125 years later at the Battle of St. Vincent—they were just better executed.  In the less than a hundred years of heavier-than-air warfare, how- ever, technology and tactics have changed continuously and drasti- cally, generating a constant flow of new equipment used in new ways.    Introduction 17  The rapid advance of technology has made it difficult for the philosophers of air power to keep up with the practitioners.  Nowhere has this phenomenon been more evident than in the campaign against terrorists in Afghanistan. Western air-power practi- tioners were confronted with a perverse demonstration of asymmetric warfare. Small bands of terrorists, hiding in unmarked caves in the Afghan wilderness, were still able to conduct their own offensive oper- ations through sleeper surrogates in the Western homelands.  The direct response exercised in so many past conflicts was sud- denly no longer applicable, for there were no substantial enemy concentrations to target. Air-power leaders had to devise new tactics on the spot, without the advantage of a philosopher’s foresight and with the logistician’s nightmare: war conducted without proper bases. New responses had to be developed, and air power had to be applied in new ways, including the incongruous execution of com- passionate missions simultaneously with a systematic air assault.  No such incongruity had ever occurred in sea warfare, even though sea power antedates air power by many centuries. Despite this difference, this book will cover a longer period of time than Mahan’s choice of 1660 to 1783. For editorial purposes, the begin- ning of air power in 1783, the last year that Mahan covers, is covered in an appendix. That was the year that gave the balloon to the world, and while there is a general awarenes