ore down the smaller RAF, but instead by shifting objectives. In doing so, they gave the war to the RAF to win. The original strategy of Directive 17 to wipe out the RAF first had been correct, and the Luftwaffe had begun in the appropriate manner with assaults on the radar system and the fight- er airfields. Yet Hitler, Goering, and Chief of Staff Jeschonnek all made the same basic error. They did not perceive that the air war was going to be won by fighters, not by bombers. If German fighters did not clear the way for the bombers by destroying the RAF, the bombers would not “always get through.” Instead the RAF fighters would destroy so many bombers that the offensive would have to be called off, and with it, any thought of an invasion.  The aircraft that had been so effective in the continental cam- paigns, the Bf 109, had too limited a range to undertake sustained cross-Channel operations. It could reach only to London, and there had fuel for only twenty minutes combat. When the RAF withdrew beyond the Bf 109s range, it was invulnerable. Dowding could and did husband its strength so that a maximum number of German air- craft were brought down at the minimum expense to the RAF.  Ironically, Allied leaders would learn nothing from these German mistakes, and instead, would repeat them for many long months in their own air campaigns. They too believed that bombers and not fighters were the route to command of the air, and would not change their beliefs until late in 1943, when losses became unbear- able.  Goering had been effective as a bullying executive in his Four Year Plan, hounding intimidated German executives to exert more effort to accelerate rearmament. In that process his mistakes did not matter much, for no one dared to call attention to the problems he caused— they simply worked around them. It was different in the Battle of Britain, in which he personally called off attacks on the radar sta- tions as ineffective, and in which he personally dictated that