ir Ministry did not exist until 1928, and that the French Air Force—the Armée de |’Air—was not formed until 1934.”  French airmen were aware of Douhet’s Command of the Airand used it to campaign for an independent air force, but did not otherwise attempt to embrace his theories. Some claim that the French Bombing, Combat, Reconnaissance (B.C.R.) series of aircraft derived from Douhet’s call for a “battle-plane.” French historians believe that these large, awkward, ugly, and vulnerable aircraft such as the Amiot 143 and Potez 540 came about instead from budgetary problems and the success experienced during World War I with the multi-mission Caudron R XI. The French defense budget was so small that the Army could not afford to buy bombers and close support aircraft, so it bought aircraft intended for both functions—almost always an inherent handicap to developing aviation technology.”    Growth of Air-Power Theory 161  France had a real perception of the major threat to its security, and that was Germany’s population of seventy million and a rising birth rate, and France’s population of forty million and a declining birth rate. It was concerned, to a far lesser extent, about Italy, and even Spain, but the primary threat was always seen to be Germany even immediately after the war when that nation was prostrate in defeat.  As a result of its heavy casualties in World War I, and of its even- tual success with its defensive methods, the French national politics dictated a defensive posture, one that was ultimately expressed in the short-sighted folly of the Maginot Line. And it was France’s mis- fortune to be beset by feuding political parties that kept its defense budgets low even as the German threat became ever greater. France’s national politics spelled failure for its armed forces.  Given the grievous losses suffered in World War I, it is not surpris- ing that France’s political leaders might have been reluctant to take steps that might be construed as warlike. What