cks five miles to the south at Sheerness. Brandenburg was unaware that despite the haze, crowds of pleasure seekers were at the beach, enthusiastically soaking up the unaccustomed sixty- degree temperature.  Both targets were protected by antiaircraft guns, which began spo- radic firing. Either a coincidental engine malfunction or a lucky shot out of the 329 fired caused a Gotha to crash into the sea two miles off  112 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Barton’s Point, where dozens of small boats soon surrounded its wreckage. Neither the pilot nor the observer survived, but the gun- ner, Unterofizer Georg Schumacher, escaped with just a broken leg.”  In this attack, the Gothas killed thirteen, injured thirty-four, and did about twenty-five thousand dollars in damage. (As a convention for this work, all figures are in then values, based on contemporary exchange ratios, the pound then being about five dollars and the dollar about five marks.) Sixty-two fighter sorties launched against the attackers revealed all that was wrong with the British defense sys- tem. The fighters included everything from a Farman F.40 to a Bristol fighter among the sixteen types of aircraft used in the defense, but they had insufficient warning, no means of communi- cation among the aircraft, and no contact with the ground. No tac- tics had been worked out—each pilot was on an individual chase.” Defending pilots claimed a total of three victories and four “driven down out of control,” and the Daily Express newspaper translated this into ten victories out of twenty attackers. In fact, only one aircraft was lost on the raid, but two others crashed near the home base.  The Gotha, while actually quite agile when carrying one-half to a full load of fuel and bombs, became difficult to handle at lighter weights as the center of gravity moved aft. A pilot, exhausted by the strain of the long flight and combat, had to deal with a fractious tail- heavy aircraft at the most critical part of the f