he Soviet Union during the days of the purge, adopting a foreign combat formation was tantamount to treachery. In the United States, both the Army Air Corps and naval avi- ation adopted what was called the “fighting pair” during 1940 and 1941. Great Britain began using a spread-out formation in 1940, but as late as 1943 some units still used the old line-astern formation. Japan adopted the “finger-four” formation well into World War II.  Perhaps the most significant lesson that the Germans failed to learn was one of scale. Their most ambitious planning programs, already underway, envisioned a first-line air force of 11,732 aircraft, of which only 2,730 would be combat planes, with an annual pro- duction requirement for replacement purposes of about 300 per month. If war came, the production rate would be increased to 1,377 per month.” Germany could not achieve this target for many months after the outbreak of war, and would learn by 1942 that these numbers were totally inadequate. Despite having excess plant capacity and the undeniable managerial talents of Albert Speer, Germany would not be able to rectify the situation until late 1943, when it was already far too late.  Chapter Six  The Search for Air Power, World War II, 1939-41  We have seen how the threat of air power was used effectively to gain diplomatic ends during the interwar years even though it was rarely effective in achieving military ends. Air power also had pro- found economic effects during the 1930s, which were demonstrat- ed in part by the makeup of the industrial infrastructure of the avi- ation industries and in the air forces of the nations that were about to take part in World War II. The political effects achieved by the threat of air power were themselves contributing factors for war.  What is absolutely amazing is that the outbreak of World War II did not see a single attempt at what politicians and the public had dreaded for so many years—the all-out surprise aerial assault on the capital