of the Reich and for the Eastern Front. Germany was at war on too many fronts, and its air force had been kept so small for so long that there was no possibility of recovery, despite an almost miraculous surge in production.  Air Power over Europe: Round the Clock Bombing  The air war in Europe grew slowly from 1939 on, with each side learning from the other as the war progressed. The bombing of Germany had begun in 1939 with low-key attacks around the very perimeter of occupied Europe. After the German conquest of Europe, the British turned to costly daylight fighter sweeps that were eventually abandoned as nonproductive and a night-bombing campaign that grew in intensity year by year.  When the United States Army Air Force entered the war, it did so with all the enthusiasm of the true zealot, for its leaders believed utterly in the efficacy of precision daylight bombing and were deter- mined to prove their point in combat.  Although a young service, compared to the ground forces or the Navy, the USAAF had strongly held convictions about bombing, stemming in large part from the considered efforts of a relatively small group of officers who, as mentioned earlier, had been stu- dents and/or faculty members of the United States Army Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS). There is no little irony in the fact that this same group was responsible for two eventualities, one negative and one positive. The first of these was an error of colossal importance  234 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  that is rarely remarked upon, one that cost thousands of lives before it was corrected in the field. The second of these was a tremendous success, and responsible in great part for the ultimate United States air superiority.  The Air Corps Tactical School had been founded in 1926, suc- ceeding the Air Service Tactical School of 1922, and the Air Service Field Officers School of 1920. The ACTS was the highest educa- tional establishment within the service at that time, and in the re