. This dispersion allowed German firms to maintain an engineering force, keep up with foreign devel- opments, and even make a profit on sales to other countries.  The man who had led the bomber offensive against England dur- ing World War I, Captain Ernst Brandenburg, became key to revi- talizing Germany’s aviation industry. As a Ministerial Director in the German Transport Ministry, Brandenburg diligently sought the relaxation of Versailles Treaty restrictions on building aircraft, and ultimately succeeded in his task by the fall of 1926.  Thus the creation of a new German Air Force was well under way by the time Adolf Hitler came to power on January 30, 1933, with his commitment to spend billions of marks to build an air arm for future conquests.  Hitler had a natural liking for aviation, for his political successes were partly because he used aircraft in his election campaigns. With his future personal pilot, Hans Bauer, usually at the controls, Hitler  156 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  flew in three separate campaigns in the critical 1932 elections, visit- ing at least sixty-five cities on each one, sometimes as many as six in a day.” The flights were sheer theater for the enthusiastic crowds waiting at the airport for their leader to arrive, sometimes descend- ing majestically through an overcast, for Bauer was an accomplished instrument pilot. So novel was this approach that “Hitler Over Germany” came to be an accurate (and portentous) campaign slo- gan. Hitler flew in Rohrbach, Messerschmitt, and Junkers trans- ports, with a Junkers F-13 carrying the soon to be infamous Sepp Dietrich ahead of him as an “advance man” in today’s parlance.  On January 30, 1933, the day that he assumed power as Germany’s chancellor, Hitler appointed his comrade and World War I ace, Herman Goering, who had just turned forty, to be the Reich’s Commissioner of Aviation, in charge both of German civil aviation and its still secret air force. At the time, Goering was a good