om which United States air power could dictate the eventual course of the battle.  Perhaps realizing just how true his prediction of fighting well for just six months had been, Yamamoto became ever more remote. He continued to believe in the integrity of Japanese cryptography, and made his final mistake of broadcasting the itinerary of a proposed inspection and morale-raising trip to Bougainville. The message was intercepted and interpreted, and the task of killing Yamamoto was given to the U.S. Army Air Forces 339th Fighter Squadron, com- manded by Major John Mitchell. Mitchell led eighteen Lockheed P- 38s on a demanding and dangerous low-level, over-water mission of 435 miles that ended in a perfect interception. Flying as he usually did in a Mitsubishi G4M Betty, Yamamoto was shot down and killed, his plane crashing into the jungle. The accompanying bomber of the same type was also shot down. The victory over Yamamoto was credit- ed for years to Captain Thomas Lanphier, but recent intensive analy- sis indicates that then-Lieutenant Rex Barber was the probable victor.  Yamamoto died in the same manner that he had lost the war for Japan, unable to see that his codes had been compromised, and with  The Growth of Air Power, 1941-43 231  faith in the power of the Japanese Naval Air Force. His death may have saved him much embarrassment, for there would eventually have had to be recognition of the fatal mistakes he had made in the battles of Midway and Guadalcanal.  The admiral’s ashes were returned to Japan in two boxes, and he received a state funeral. One box was interred in the Tama Cemetery, next to the grave of Admiral Heihachiro Togo, under whom he had served at Tsushima thirty-eight years earlier. The sec- ond box was buried in the Chokoji Zen temple in Nagaoka. So it was that even in death, Yamamoto split his forces.  Under Yamamoto’s leadership, Japan had created a small, profi- cient air force ideally suited for dealing with ill-equipped opponents such as th