) of their Spanish Nationalist comrades-in-arms.  Asecond tactical event, the April 26, 1937, bombing of Guernica, would have even more profound repercussions. A Nationalist force of 40,000 troops led by General Emilio Mola attacked Guernica, backed up by a hundred planes of the Kondor Legion Bomber Group (K/88), Fighter Group (J/88), the “Experimental Squadron” (VB/88), and two Italian squadrons of Fiat fighters.  The German bombers conducted a three-hour attack, with bomb loads comprised of two-thirds 250-kilogram high-explosive bombs  190 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  and one-third incendiaries. According to some reports, both fight- ers and bombers made strafing runs on the city. Somewhat less cred- ible counterarguments have been advanced to the effect that the bombing was not as severe as claimed, and that much of the dam- age was caused by the Red forces systematically exploding and burn- ing the center of the city as a part of a far-sighted propaganda effort.  The attack on Guernica was the most effective air assault to that date in terms of the destruction of a city. Its repercussions echoed throughout the world, its import highlighted in Pablo Picasso’s starkly evocative painting Guernica, now housed, ironically enough, in the Reina Sofia Museum in Madrid.  It might be said that the net effect of the bombing of Guernica was negligible in terms of the outcome of the Spanish Civil War, which was already rapidly nearing its end with a Nationalist victory. However, the publicity and propaganda surrounding Guernica had far-reaching popular effect in the minds of the general public and of the leading politicians who would debate the fate of Europe until September 1, 1939. It seemed to corroborate the long-held fears of the “bolt-from- the-blue knockout blow,” and while the numbers of casualties were magnified by rumor, it did portray the ugly future of aerial warfare.  A lesser-known but important attack took place during October 1937 on the Nationali