ent Lincoln. Though there were many difficulties ahead, from General Scott’s lack of interest in balloons to yet another argu- ment with the unfortunate Whipple, Lowe was finally employed by the government.  Once given official status, Lowe launched into action, supervising the construction of a balloon, the Union, within sixteen days. Getting a ground crew authorized took another two weeks, but the new balloon was in action at Fort Corcoran by August 29.  There followed a period of sustained mobile operations by Lowe, proving that the balloon could be moved from point to point, and valuable observations made whenever weather permitted. More important, he took such important persons as Generals George McClellan, Fitz-John Porter, and Irvin McDowell aloft, where they could see for themselves the advantage that height gave an observer.  Lowe’s plans for a Balloon Corps were at last given substance, and by March 1862, he had created a force of seven balloons and no less than twelve portable hydrogen generators. A former coal barge George Washington Parke Custis was equipped to carry a balloon, a portable generator, and its crew on the waters served by the Potomac and other rivers.  Lowe’s backers also saw to it that each balloon company was ade- quately manned. The observations were to be undertaken by an    412 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  aeronaut, but the work was to be done in military fashion by a cap- tain and fifty enlisted personnel.‘ Normally four balloons were attached, and a train of ten wagons were required, including the three needed for the generation of hydrogen. Somewhat surpris- ingly, the pool of available balloonists was large enough that Lowe could be selective, and he recruited eight experienced men to assist him as aeronauts. Perhaps more important than anything else, there had been five months of solid training during the winter.  The concept of a Balloon Corps was so radical that no one in the Union Army seemed to wish to assume resp