ng Corps flew continu- ous sorties, reporting the position of the Germans, and suffering several losses. The great coup of the RFC came on August 31. General von Kluck had been ordered to stop his eastward advance that would have carried his First Army north of Paris. Instead, he was ordered to turn in two columns, one to the south and one to the southeast, a route that would, if successful, envelop Paris. This fate- ful error was immediately observed by Lieutenant A. E. Borton and Captain E. W. Furse of No. 5 Squadron. Two other crews confirmed the sighting. Von Kluck was marching into a cul-de-sac formed by the Ninth French Army on the left, the Sixth French Army on the right, with the French Fifth Army and the British Expeditionary Force at the bottom of the trap.  These were the general dispositions for the initiation of the Battle of the Marne on September 6. That it occurred was due to the fact that Allied airmen had observed the enemy and divined his intentions, and to the more amazing fact that these observations were believed and acted upon by the British and French High Commands. Sir John French wrote in his dispatch of September 7, “I wish particularly to bring to your lordship’s notice the admirable work done by the Royal Flying Corps under Sir David Henderson. Their skill, energy and per- severance have been beyond all praise. They have furnished me with the most complete and accurate information which has been of incal- culable value in the conduct of operations.”  France knew of the Schlieffen plan, but did not believe the Germans had the forces necessary to make it work. The French immediately implemented their notorious Plan XVII, which played directly into the hands of the Germans by thrusting forward into Alsace and Lorraine, giving the German right wing the best possible chance to cut them off. (It was an eerie forecast of Allied efforts in May 1940.) The French had mobilized almost four million men in sixteen days formed into the five French arm