. This national enthu- siasm reached to the very highest levels, including the Kaiser and the Chief of Staff, von Moltke, and the German airship fleet (which included both Zeppelins and the Schitte-Lanz dirigibles that used plywood rather than aluminum for their framework) was touted as being a supreme weapon that no other nation could match. This was partly correct, for while not so fast as aircraft, the airships had unmatched range and bomb-carrying capacity. But neither the British nor the Germans foresaw that the ability of the rigid airship to navigate and bomb accurately was very limited nor that it was so adversely affected by wind and weather. The failure to see these facts is hard to explain, for the short history of dirigibles had been repeatedly punctuated by disasters from these elements.  Nonetheless, the fear of Zeppelin (the term became generic; few in England were even aware of the Schiitte-Lanz, which built only twenty-two dirigibles) raids led to the first true strategic bombard- ment raids in history, as Great Britain sought to slay the dragons in their lairs. The longtime aviation advocate, then First Lord of the Admiralty, Winston S. Churchill, launched Royal Naval Air Service aircraft in a series of daring raids on airship bases.  The first of these raids took place on September 22, when four Avro 504s of the RNAS took off to bomb airship sheds at Cologne and Dusseldorf. The raids were not successful. Commodore Murray Sueter, the inspirational leader of the Admiralty’s Air Department, proposed another such raid. On October 8, 1914, Squadron Commander D. A. Spenser Grey and Flight Lieutenant R. L. G. Marix executed his plan, flying Sopwith Tabloid biplanes from Antwerp, to repeat the attack. The shapely little Tabloid biplanes were descended from the 1914 Schneider Trophy winner, and car- ried a pilot and some twenty-pound bombs at ninety-three miles per hour. Grey could not find his target and bombed the Cologne rail- way station instead. Marix