y obsolete and often well worn. The most signifi- cant contribution was the Sikorsky four-engine bomber, of which ninety-three were produced during the war. The big Sikorskys flew four hundred sorties and dropped sixty-five tons of bombs. They    96 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  were unique in their ruggedness, none being lost to German fight- ers, and one returned to land safely after two engines on one side had been shot out—a remarkable feat for both the aircraft and its pilot, for “engine-out” flight remained a difficult and hazardous feat for many years.  Despite recruiting problems, the Imperial Russian Air Service grew to 135 detachments by the time Russia ended the war, and included a notable first by allowing Princess Evgeniyua Shakovskaya to become the world’s first female combat pilot in 1914. There were twenty-six Russian pilots who became aces. The most important of these was the six-victory ace Aleksandr Nicolaevich Prokofiev de Severskii, who became a prominent aircraft manufacturer and air- power philosopher in the United States. With his name anglicized to Alexander P. de Seversky, he took up Douhet’s mantle and advocat- ed a strong air force in his influential book Victory through Air Power.  When Russia withdrew from World War I after the Communist takeover and the 1917 treaty of Brest-Litovsk, the Air Fleet of the Workers and Peasants Red Army emerged from the battered rem- nants of the former Imperial Air Service. This, the Red Air Force, almost totally ignored the lessons learned from operating the four- engine Sikorskys. Instead, the Red Air Force was dedicated to the sup- port of the Red Army, and functioned superbly in this role in the later years of World War II. Lip service was paid to Douhet’s ideas, and some significant large bombers were built, but strategic bombing did not loom large in Soviet strategy until the advent of the Cold War.  The United States  Not unlike an eager puppy with a new toy, the United States plunged in