ders of the United States, a democracy, were notably more severe in their demands for perfor- mance than were their counterparts in totalitarian Germany and espe- cially in Imperial Japan. In both of those nations, old-school ties, fam- ily connections, and a feudal sense of noblesse oblige often kept com- manders in positions where they had failed so that they would not “lose face.”) LeMay continued Hansell’s conventional tactics, but in the back of his mind was a plan to switch to nighttime, low-level area bombing attacks intended to burn the combustible Japanese cities to the ground.  The continued efforts at precision bombing not only yielded poor results, they were met with increasing opposition. In a series of raids through February, twenty-nine B-29s were lost to fighters and ten more to either flak or fighters. In addition, the B-29s were still having devel- opment difficulties, and no fewer than twenty-one crashed because of operational problems—engine fires for the most part. A further fifteen were simply missing, down somewhere over the trackless ocean. When LeMay looked at the balance sheet, it read seventy-five aircraft lost, with their 825 precious crew members. In return, so little damage had been done to the Japanese that their military leaders began to think the B- 29 raids were an actual advantage to them, siphoning off huge amounts of American resources that might have been better applied.  In Kenneth P. Werrell’s Blankets of Fire, a quote by Colonel Cecil Combs, a key officer at Twentieth Air Force Headquarters reveals that LeMay knew his trade, having done it personally and learning it the hard way. He knew what he wanted of his people, he knew what he could expect of his planes, and he knew how to train to get what he wanted. And, in Combs’s words, “He was a hardheaded bastard.””  LeMay, after long consideration, decided to adopt the tactics that he and his staff had not only planned but tested. There were many advantages to night area bombing,