ell.  The P.A.F. had been wiped out, losing 333 aircraft, 83 percent of its total fleet. Thirty percent of its flying personnel and 22 percent of its ground personnel were lost in the first two weeks of the strug- gle. The Luftwaffe had lost 285 of the 1,600 aircraft it had deployed against Poland, but perhaps more revealing, it had used up 60 per- cent of its total bomb supply, as well as most of its fuel reserves.”  The German success was impressive, but it is important to note what the German military leadership failed to learn from it. Instead of observing that its success stemmed from having a great numeri- cal and qualitative advantage, and that a similar success against a future opponent would depend upon maintaining those advan- tages, the German High Command just accepted the victory as its due and remained satisfied with the Luftwaffe’s status quo.  Germany had denuded its Western defenses for the campaign in Poland, leaving only 30 divisions, of which only 12 were first rate, to face the 110 French divisions and still assembling troops of the British Expeditionary Force. During the month that Poland struggled and  The Search for Air Power, World War IT, 1939-41 199  died, France and Britain were stunned by the apparently flawless per- formance of the German Wehrmacht and did nothing. While they waited, the Germans redeployed, making up their losses on the ground and in the air as they prepared for a new battle in the West.  The inactivity of the French and British High Commands forfeit- ed the only chance in the first five years of the war that the Western Allies could have intervened against Germany on the Continent with a high probability of success. The only possible reason for this otherwise inexplicable inactivity is the influence air power exerted upon national psychology during the interwar period. The French and British leaders were mesmerized by the possibility of a devas- tating German air attack on their principal cities and, like rabbits facin