The Tupolev Tu-4, as the copy was called, first flew on June 3, 1947. It was followed by some four hundred additional aircraft, of which three hundred were in service by 1950.‘ These aircraft had the capacity for a one-way nuclear attack on the United States, a horrifying possibility that had never before existed.  As a result of this situation, the second USAF Chief of Staff, General Hoyt S. Vandenberg, had to prepare not for what he thought the Soviets might do, but what he knew they could do, however improbable it might seem. (The performance of the Tu-4 for a one-way mission was marginal—but a Soviet nuclear attack could have been made.) Thus, even as a critical air war was being fought in Korea, the focus of the United States Air Force had to be on defense of the national air space and upon a retaliatory force. The situation introduced revolutionary changes in thinking, for the Congress was at last persuaded that the military budget had to be increased significantly in peacetime. And from this point on, the USAF had to become a permanent force in being, rather than, as in the past, a small regular force that would be augmented by reserve forces during a protracted buildup in the event of war.  This small beginning set into motion the largest, most expensive, and potentially the most catastrophic arms race in history, that of the United States and the Soviet Union. It would continue for another four decades, until the abrupt collapse of the USSR on December 25, 1991. In the intervening forty years, both nations would raise  298 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  the capability of air power by an order of magnitude—and both nations would be inhibited by the specter of what came to be known as MAD or mutually assured destruction.  In the United States, there began an immediate buildup of the Strategic Air Command (SAC) and the Air Defense Command (ADC), both of which had been established, along with the Tactical Air Command (TAC), in 1946. Because of the sev