on attain that level of effort. His position was far different from Goering’s, Harris’s, Eaker’s, or Doolittle’s. Each of them had been faced with a superfluity of targets that were far more difficult to destroy, and they faced much more capable enemy opposition. The Germans did not begin to have even a small proportion of the num- ber of aircraft required, and even the Allies had, until late in 1944, an insufficient quantity of aircraft equipment. These differences in  True Air Superiority, Then Absolute Air Supremacy, 1944-45 279  no way demean LeMay’s assessment or his performance. A lesser man might have cried out about his casualties and demanded many bombers before he could promise victory. LeMay did not hedge; instead, he did as he would do through much of his career, under- stand exactly what the equipment and crew members under his com- mand were capable of, then task them to achieve their maximum capabilities.  Nor was his campaign without its problems. XXI Bomber Command ran out of incendiaries, and LeMay was required to divert effort to suppress the Kamikaze attacks on Okinawa by attack- ing their bases in Kanoya. In the same time period, the XXI also achieved remarkable (and too often unremarked upon) success with a superb mining campaign.  And as his strength grew, Japanese resistance became ever more feeble. A successful precision bombing campaign had destroyed some 70 percent of Japanese aircraft engine manufacturing capaci- ty, and turned XXI Bomber Command once more toward urban areas. On May 11, LeMay resumed attacks against Japanese cities, with the intention of destroying so much of Japan that an invasion would not be necessary. The major cities were ravaged with fire bombs as 6,690 B-29 sorties dropped 41,592 tons of bombs on Tokyo, Nagoya, Kobe, Osaka, and Yokohama. Smaller cities were also attacked, bringing the burned-out area of Japanese cities to an esti- mated ninety-four square miles—fifty-six of these in Tokyo alone. The cost in B-29s w