o have to be successful, the intensive training that bomber crews would require to deliver their bombs on target, and even the type and variety of bombs necessary to be effective. No real thought was given to the method of selecting targets, or the probable loss rate that would be encountered in operations.  Instead, the idea carried forward was simply to bomb Germany and to build bombers to do so. It was utterly simplistic, and it failed utterly for most of the war, yet it fit into prevailing circumstances. In 1940 Great Britain was driven off the continent by Germany, and bombing became the only means of attack available. After June 22, 1941, with Britain under great pressure from the Soviet Union to provide some assistance, bombing was the only weapon in its arse- nal. The RAF was forced to resort to area bombing by heavy bombers in what eventually became a colossal effort that consumed a vast proportion of Great Britain’s industrial capacity.  Heavy bombers gradually became available in the form of the four-engine Short Stirling, Handley Page Halifax, and the Avro Lancaster under the industrial push of Wilfrid Freeman. They would be deployed in Bomber Command under the leadership of Air Marshal Sir Arthur Harris, who had no illusions about targeting only industrial and military targets. His aim was to “de-house” Germany and force it to its knees by area bombing.  While Trenchard’s bombing philosophy was not executed, he was nonetheless critical to the RAF’s success in World War II. He kept it in existence, he nurtured it on very tight budgets, and he made it attractive to the highly qualified men who did direct its destiny from 1939 to 1945. That they did not insist on implementing his philoso- phy is a tribute to their pragmatism. They did what they had to do with what they had available.  Italy Giulio Douhet (1869-1930) was perhaps the first of the true air- power philosophers, with his interest in military aviation beginning in 1905, when Count Almerigo da Sc