s ended on May 1, 1960, when Francis Gary Powers was shot down near Sverdlovsk by the blast effect of a volley of fourteen SA-2 surface-to-air missiles. Khrushchev used the inci- dent to mortify President Eisenhower at a Paris summit meeting.  Powers was given a Soviet show trial and sentenced to ten years in a labor camp for espionage. He was later exchanged for the notori- ous Soviet spy, Rudolph Abel.  Although flights over the Soviet Union were discontinued, the U-2 continued to be improved over time and will likely see service well into the twenty-first century. It performed its most important duties in 1962, when as an expression of a new concept of air power, it brought the greatest possible influence to bear upon world history.  CORONA : The First Successful Spy Satellites  The successful ICBM program had prompted the United States Air Force to issue a contract in October 1956 to the Lockheed Corporation to develop the Advanced (satellite) Reconnaissance System, that would transmit digitized images directly to ground sta- tions. Progress was slow, and in 1958, President Eisenhower approved an interim system to return the photographs on film via a recoverable capsule. The program was launched under the public code name DISCOVERER, and masked as an effort to use space vehicles to learn more about the earth’s environment. The actual program was run by the USAF and the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and had the code name CORONA.  The technical challenge was great, and there were no less than twelve well-publicized mission failures. Because today’s media seems to find a hysterical delight in pointing to government program fail- ures, no similar contemporary effort could survive such a series of catastrophes without demands for cancellation. On August 18, 1960, DISCOVERER XIV succeeded in exposing twenty pounds of film over the Soviet Union. The capsule was ejected from the satellite and    The Cold War, 1945-62 309  picked up in midair by a USAF Fairchild C-11