held upon the outbreak of war in 1939. It will also show the relatively small degree of influence exerted by most of the leading air- power theorists over this air-power position.  Great Britain No matter how rational the economic reasons for the rapid down- sizing of the Royal Air Force, it is amazing, from a purely logistics standpoint, that so much could have been accomplished in just six    Growth of Air-Power Theory 127  months. The October 1918 returns indicated a force of 22,271 air- craft of all types, sustained by almost a quarter of a million person- nel, of whom 22,000 were officers. By March 1919, the reduced bud- get directed that the number of aircraft be cut to about 200 aircraft, with 3,280 officers and 25,000 enlisted personnel.' These forces were scattered throughout the Empire, with only two squadrons to defend Great Britain.  Demobilization of personnel proceeded at an astounding rate, as did the disposition of surplus war matériel. Part of this vast disposal effort was done through the usual government surplus sales, in which individual aircraft or engines were sold to civilian customers. In order to preserve some sort of a market for the civilian manu- facture of new engines, it was sometimes stipulated that only “dam- aged” engines be sold. Often the “damage” was that inflicted by a man with a sledgehammer before sale, and it was said that a well- placed pound note could drastically reduce the damage by affecting his aim and power.  In one instance, the British government made a sound business deal with a syndicate backed by Handley Page, Ltd. In this transac- tion, the entire stock of the Aircraft Disposal Board (worth some $28,500,000) was purchased from the Ministry of Munitions for a solid $5,000,000—probably the best return on investment any gov- ernment has ever made on surplus sales (with the notable exception of the Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center at Davis- Monthan Air Force Base, Arizona). The Handley Page syndicate, ope