d the combat box and combat wing    242 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  formations that were intended both to increase defensive firepower and improve bombing accuracy. In the combat box, eighteen to twen- ty-one bombers flew as a group, with three groups to a combat wing. With fifty-four bombers in tight formation, an attacking German fighter would be covered by up to 540 fifty-caliber machine guns.  With training and the hard experience of combat missions, the Eighth began to dispatch more and more aircraft on major mis- sions, rising from 91 in the January attack on Wilhelmshaven to 380 in an August attack on Bochum/Bonn. Losses were high, with 128 shot down in July alone, meaning that 1,280 well-trained crewmen were killed or taken as prisoners of war.  As the Eighth built up toward the powerful machine it would become in 1944, Germany committed more and more of the Luftwaffe fighters to the defense of the Reich, pulling them away from where they were vitally needed on the Eastern Front. All German defenses grew, including radar installations, and particular- ly antiaircraft guns. So it was that by mid-1944, the bombing cam- paign did, in the words of the German Minister of War Production, Albert Speer, constitute a second front. In a postwar interview he stated that the bombing required the Reich’s antiaircraft defenses to receive two million men, 30 percent of artillery output, 20 percent of heavy ammunition, 50 percent of electronic equipment, and 33 per- cent of optical equipment. The most important single weapon dedi- cated to air defense was the magnificent dual-purpose eighty-eight- millimeter guns. Seventy-five percent of these were assigned to anti- aircraft duties rather than to anti-tank duties on the Eastern Front, where they were so desperately needed. Unfortunately for the Eighth Air Force, the full import of its effect was not yet known. Stalin was far from satisfied, and the Eighth continued to be heavily criticized by Roosevelt, Marshal