t was generally known that defeatism was extensive in the French Air Force, not least because of the continual problems with fit- ting production aircraft with armament and equipment, but most of all because no French equipment was yet a match for the German. General Sir Edward Spears, who was acting as a liaison officer between the RAF Chief of Staff and the French, had written in late May that “this lethargy of the French Air Force is extremely disquieting.”  On a visit to General Vuillemin in early June, Air Vice Marshal Sir William Sholto Douglas arrived at Villacoublay airfield, outside of Paris. His task was to discuss what action the RAF and the Royal Navy should take when Italy entered the war.  Somewhat to his chagrin, given what he considered the impor- tance of the mission, no one met him except a flight of German bombers strafing the field where about sixty French fighters were parked. After the German bombers left, Douglas and his party went to the French officers’ mess, where to their surprise they found all the French pilots at lunch, ignoring the air raid and apparently unconcerned that several of their fighters were burning on the ramp." The scene stunned Douglas, for he knew that in a similar circumstance, RAF pilots would be fighting for aircraft in which to take off after the attacking Germans.    208 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  The Luftwaffe now played a virtuoso role in air support, with its level bombers, Heinkel He 111s, Dornier Do-17s, and Junkers Ju 88As, attacking road and rail communications far behind the front, while the Junkers Ju 87 Stuka dive-bombers lived up to their awesome reputation in their close air support of the swift-moving panzers. The Stukas effectively replaced cannons for the Germans, because the panzers had moved forward much faster than the horse-drawn artillery could follow. The psychological effect of the screaming dive of the Stukas, followed by the inevitable bomb burst, was tremendous. French troops f