Chi Minh declared the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and was promptly recognized by the Soviet Union and Communist China. Then, on June 25, 1950, with the implicit backing of both Stalin and Mao Zedong, Kim II Sung ordered North Korean troops to invade South Korea.  Korea and the Conundrum of Ultimate Air Power  Six columns of North Korean People’s Army (NKPA) troops had swept across the border, overwhelming the token South Korean defenses with well-trained, well-equipped divisions that were armed and fought in the fashion of Soviet troops. Kim II Sung’s intent was to capture Seoul, then drive all the way through South Korea to the sea. He would then announce that all of Korea had been reunited under his rule.  Stalin, Mao Zedong, and Kim II Sung all believed that the United States would not intervene. They based their belief primarily on an assurance given by Secretary of State Dean Acheson at the National Press Club on January 12, 1950, that the United States would defend only the area specified in an earlier National Security Council mem- orandum, NSC 48/2. The memorandum specified that Japan, the Ryukus, and the Philippines would be defended, but South Korea was not mentioned. The Communists took him at his word, and were surprised when President Truman announced that the United States would defend South Korea. Truman, displaying the sawy political acumen that had brought him to be first a senator, then vice-president, finessed the United States Congress by calling the intervention a “police action” and not a war. He then maneuvered a resolution past a potential Soviet veto through the United Nations Security Council that established a joint United Nations Command to be allied to South Korea. The United States would provide the vast majority of forces—but it was not officially at war.  Yet even Truman’s speedy actions were almost too late, for the North Korean Army had pushed the South Koreans and a token UN force into the tiny Pusan Perimeter, where it looked l