exis- tence by Air Force technology, also pursued a nuclear course, bring- ing in large aircraft such as the Douglas AD-3 Skywarrior for that role.* Fortunately, the Navy also believed in power projection through conventional means, and continued to field aircraft such as the Douglas A-4 Skyhawk and the Grumman A-6B Intruder for the tactical role. The requirement of carriers to provide a fleet defense  318 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  capability also led to the employment of sophisticated fighters such as the McDonnell F4 Phantom and the Vought F-8 Crusader, both, particularly the Crusader, useful in the air superiority role.  The United States’ nuclear mind-set persisted even through low- level crises such as those in Lebanon and Taiwan in 1958. In Lebanon, the Combined Air Strike Force (CASF), which had been first established in 1955, was dispatched as a deterrent to a Muslim uprising and/or an invasion of Lebanon by Syria or Iraq. The CASF consisted of about a hundred aircraft, including fighters, bombers, reconnaissance aircraft, and tankers. It was in concept not unlike today’s Air Expeditionary Forces, but smaller in scale. The show of strength eventually caused the situation to cool down.  In a similar way, President Eisenhower signaled his intention to defend Taiwan from Red Chinese attack by dispatching the Seventh Fleet and a squadron of the brand-new and red-hot Lockheed F- 104s. Combat ensued, with United States and Nationalist Chinese pilots giving the Red Chinese Air Force a severe drubbing, shooting down thirty-three planes.’  The success of these actions should have fostered a greater realiza- tion within the USAF of the need for tactical forces to fight conven- tional (i.e., non-nuclear) wars. The unfortunate assumption was made that the tactical forces were successful in their mission only because they operated under the umbrella of the massive nuclear air power of the United States. Because of this mental set, when the USAF was forced—