sixty-three aircraft deployed on the continent in August 1914 to become the Royal Air Force with a worldwide strength of 22,650 aircraft by 1918.’ As an index of just how massive the growth had been, in Britain, the total production for the first ten months of 1918 was 26,685 aircraft and 29,561 engines.*    Air Power in World War I 51  Verdun. Field Marshal von Hindenburg, with his Quartermaster General, Erich von Ludendorf, next followed Falkenhayn on August 29, 1917. The latter two men had seen air power in action, and in part owed their promotions to it, so they were also strong backers.  Farther down the command chain, three major leaders emerged. Hermann von der Lieth-Thomsen was assigned to oversee develop- ments in military aviation in 1908, and became a champion of German air power. As Chief of Field Aviation he worked toward unification of all of the diverse agencies responsible for training, aircraft procure- ment, and deployment of flyers into an independent branch of the service. In October 1916, the Air Service (Luftstreitkrafte) was estab- lished—as part of the Army—under the command of General Ernst Wilhelm von Hoeppner, with Thomsen as Chief of Staff. The gratitude of Kaiser Wilhelm was so great that both Hoeppner and Thomsen were awarded the Orden Pour le Mérite (the “Blue Max”) on April 8, 1917, the only two non-combat airmen to be so honored." Another important figure was Major Wilhelm Siegert, who was the bomber chief at the German High Command. He was a combat pilot who put into action principles he had learned at the front, and, at war’s end would provide, in his resignation, a poignant paean to the German air service, predicting the rise of the Luftwaffe in the future.  Germany (as usual) had planned on a short war, and its aircraft industry was not yet mature. Unlike France, where airmen had seemed to spring like dragons’ teeth from the ground, the aircraft industry had a labored beginning. The Wright brothers had formed a company in Germany