rn, influence the shape and substance of air power for all time.  An Air-Power Offset  The results of the early Allied exercise of air power in the form of telling reconnaissance might have had an even greater effect on the outcome of the war if the Germans had not benefited from aer- ial reconnaissance to the same or greater degree on the Eastern Front. The details of this exercise in air power will be given below, but the point is that if the Germans had not won a large victory on the Russian front, they would have been compelled to draw back even more resources from the already depleted Western Front. This might well have led not to trench warfare but instead to an Allied offensive that might have won the war in 1915.  The Germans had planned to deal with the French in six weeks, and depended upon the Russians to take six weeks or more to mobi- lize. To Berlin’s dismay, the Russian forces were mobilized far more rapidly. The long-planned Russian offensive against Austria was begun on schedule, and on August 9, Grand Duke Nikolai  60 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Nikolaevich decided to move the First and Second Armies in an improvised twin-pronged offensive into East Prussia. In the east, General Pavel Karlovich Rennenkampf’s First Army attacked with the objective of overwhelming the weak German Eighth Army left as a blocking force there. Rennenkampf intended to advance to the Vistula River, from which point the route to Berlin would be opened. From the south, the relatively inexperienced General Alexander Samsonov ordered his Second Army, despite its inade- quate equipment, to attack the Germans from the rear. Samsonov’s ambitious goal was to cross East Prussia all the way to the Baltic and thus isolate and destroy the German Eighth Army. As it happened, Rennenkampf and Samsonov were bitter personal enemies, and this strained relationship may have contributed to their ultimate deba- cle.  The weight of the attacks panicked the German General Max von Pr