counts. His book, combined with Kurt Vonnegutt’s Slaughter House Five, argued that it was an unnecessary and excessive reaction.    True Air Superiority, Then Absolute Air Supremacy, 1944-45 259  The inference was that it was a personal, vindictive, and bloody- minded act by Bomber Harris, who was in turn a metaphor for all the vindictive and bloody-minded air force leaders who bombed not to win wars but for the sheer pleasure of killing.  The controversy stems in part from the fact that the critics make their decisions in peacetime, without any responsibility for prosecut- ing a war. In contrast, the Allied commanders had been fighting for more than five years, and even in its death throes, Germany was prov- ing resilient. It had in the past year introduced the V-1, the V-2, the Messerschmitt Me 262, and the snorkel submarine. It was still killing as many Allied soldiers and civilians as it could, and was still conduct- ing an as yet undefined but horrifying holocaust on the Jewish popu- lation. No one knew what last resource it might have—there were even fears that it might have somehow availed itself of an atomic bomb.  So great was the remaining danger that requests for the raid on Dresden had come from Prime Minister Winston Churchill, and reportedly, from Joseph Stalin as well. The Allied Supreme Commander, General Eisenhower, was informed, and a USAAF raid was laid on for the following day. The chain of command ran from Churchill down through the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal Charles Portal, and through Air Vice Marshal Sir Sidney Bufton, the Chairman of the Combined Strategic Targets Committee, to Harris. These men did not see Dresden as a quaint provincial city; they saw it for what it was, a key transportation hub for the Eastern Front, and a collection of munitions. Notwithstanding this viewpoint, Harris took the trouble to have his deputy, Air Vice Marshall Sir Richard Saundby, check to make sure that Dresden should be on the target list.”  T