Williams’s analysis was important primarily to professionals in the aviation business. Politically, he was not much more sophisticated than Lindbergh, maintaining isola- tionist views right up to the time of his book’s publication in the fall of 1940.  The German propaganda effort was not confined to the United States. In 1936, an RAF delegation, led by Air Vice Marshals Christopher Courtney and Douglas C. S. Evill, visited the usual round of factories and airfields, and was even shown details of the actual Luftwaffe construction program for the time. In October 1937 the RAF reciprocated, and a party of Luftwaffe leaders, including Udet and Milch, were treated to a tour of British airfields. They met with Air Chief Marshals Sir Edgar Ludlow-Hewitt and Sir Hugh Dowding, who were at the time the respective chiefs of RAF Bomber and Fighter Commands. The Germans did not regard the British equipment highly, and missed the implication of the “shadow facto- ry” which, somewhat inexplicably, they were shown. The shadow fac- tory system had been set up to permit manufacturers of automobiles and other similar high-volume equipment to engage in the manu- facture of aircraft under license. The Rootes Group was the first to enter the system, and others followed. The shadow system dispersed production, with some of the shadow factories growing into princi- pal suppliers of the Spitfire and other high-volume aircraft.  However, the real coup came in August 1938, when Milch staged a dramatic five-day trip for the French Air Force Chief of Staff, General Joseph Vuillemin. The short, stocky Vuillemin flew to Germany in the best aircraft France had to offer, a shiny silver pro- totype Amiot 340.  Air Power and Its Influence Between the Wars 175  There he was dazed by the production of the Messerschmitt, Junkers, and Heinkel factories. On one occasion, Milch arranged for every flyable German fighter to be flown to one airfield where Vuillemin was making a routine and quick stop. The vi