and its absence was deeply felt by McClellan, who declared to Lowe that it would have been invaluable to him. Then on December 13, 1862, at Fredericksburg, Virginia, Lowe per- sonally flew in a tethered balloon throughout the day, providing invaluable information to the staff of the self-proclaimed inade- quate General Ambrose E. Burnside. Had Burnside correctly inter- preted the information Lowe was giving him, he would have recog- nized that the Confederates occupied an impregnable position, and that his troops would inevitably be slaughtered if they attacked. Living up to his own image of himself, he did not make the correct interpretation, and his troops were slaughtered.  Despite this bravura performance, Lowe’s star was setting. He came under personal attack for his bad paperwork, and his pay was cut from ten dollars to six dollars per day—the wage of one of his aeronauts. It was too much, and Lowe resigned—but offered to serve without pay. It was a hopeless ploy. The Federal Army contin- ued to use balloons, with Lowe’s former assistants operating them, and they provided invaluable intelligence at the Battle of Chancellorsville. Once again, however, the commanding general, in this case General Joseph Hooker, was already so demoralized by the almost magic movements of Robert E. Lee and Stonewall Jackson that he did not make intelligent use of the information he had.  The bumbling by Burnside and Hooker in regard to air intelli- gence would be repeated down through the years, from General Hugh Trenchard’s miscalculations about offensive operations in    Appendix 415  World War I to Saddam Hussein’s underestimation of the effects of air superiority in the Persian Gulf War. In every major war, and in most of the minor ones, gross miscalculations were made by one side or the other (and sometimes both) in interpreting air intelli- gence. In fairness, however, it must be noted that as the air weapon became more familiar to military leaders, air intelligence was used