tributed among seventy-two units. Actual strength was about 215. By March 1918, there were 300 reconnaissance aircraft and 741 artillery observation aircraft in the field, and this despite the extensive buildup of fighter and ground- attack units. Other air forces built up their reconnaissance capabil- ity in a similar manner.*  It became the practice of both the Allied and the Central powers to separate their reconnaissance units into two distinct groups. Typically fewer aircraft were designated to do long-range recon- naissance, while the bulk of the force was assigned the task of short- range reconnaissance. This included patrolling and photographing the front lines and providing artillery-spotting services.  A third type of observation duty was perhaps the most hazardous, the “contact patrol” initiated by the RFC at Neuve Chapelle, but subsequently used by all the air forces, with the Germans becoming particularly adept at the task. In this work, the aircraft had to fly low enough to identify the front lines (fluid during an attack) and com- municate the new positions back to the headquarters staff by drop- ping message packs. Aircraft on contact patrols were particularly vulnerable to attack from enemy fighters, which had the advantage of altitude. In addition, the pilot was to observe the enemy posi- tions and bring down artillery fire upon targets of opportunity.  Air Power in World War I 69  Losses were high in this work, because it immediately gave the advan- tage of height to enemy fighters, and aircraft operating low over the front were subject to everything from rifle fire to antiaircraft guns (“archie” in British parlance) to chance obliteration by passing artillery shells—which, despite their speed, were often observed in flight by the pilots if their relative alignment was correct.  Reconnaissance pilots were also tasked for special operations that included landing and picking up agents behind enemy lines at night. Given that the aircraft of the perio