rance took no major offensive action on the Western Front and kept air activity to a minimum. During the eight months between September 1939 and April 1940, the French lost only sixty- three aircraft, while claiming eighty victories over the Luftwaffe. In terms of fighter losses, the Germans lost thirty-nine, the French thir- ty-five, and the British eleven.  The French resolutely abstained from bombing German cities, waiting until the desperate days of early June to send a single four- engine Farman N.C. 223 to bomb Berlin. Britain confined RAF Bomber Command to attacks on German naval targets, and in doing so learned a bloody lesson on December 18, 1939, when twenty-four  The Search for Air Power, World War IT, 1939-41 201  Vickers Wellingtons were sent on a daylight raid against naval tar- gets in the Wilhelmshaven area.  Up to this point, the Royal Air Force believed that even a small formation of three bombers could, if flown in tight formation, fight their way through enemy fighter opposition to the target. Larger formations seemed to promise even greater defensive capability.  Twenty-two Wellingtons entered the target area, and twelve of these were promptly shot down by defending Messerschmitt Bf 109 and Bf 110 fighters. Five Wellingtons made crash landings on their return flights, and only five landed safely. The disaster convinced RAF Bomber Command that daylight raids were too costly, and that night bombing was the proper method of attack.  As the phony war dragged on, France and Britain frantically attempted to bolster their aviation strength with new equipment. Unfortunately for France, while its Plan V called for the production of 8,059 aircraft by May 1940, it was able to produce only 2,629." Further, a great percentage of these were not combat ready because they lacked essential components such as radios, instruments, and armament. Perhaps most significant of all, the French Air Force had only 67 percent of the pilots it required, and morale was not h