rive over Great Britain before nightfall.  The British defense system seized the opportunity, sending thir- ty-five aircraft to intercept the Zeppelins. Major Egbert Cadbury and Captain Robert Leckie took off in a de Havilland D.H. 4, an air- craft with a performance adequate for its task. Both men were expe- rienced, with Cadbury having been credited in part with the destruction of the L 21 the previous November, and Leckie credit- ed with shooting down the L 22 in May 1917. They attacked the L 70 head on at about seven thousand feet, and their controversial Pomeroy explosive bullets tore a tremendous hole in the airship’s envelope, igniting the hydrogen-filled lifting cells. Strasser died in the ensuing crash, and with him died all hopes of further use of the Zeppelin over England.”  After the war it was possible to assess the material and personnel costs of the Zeppelin campaign. The Germans dropped an estimated 220 tons of bombs from Zeppelins, killing 557 and injuring 1,358. The bombs also caused about $7.5 million in damages. Seventeen Zeppelins were destroyed by aircraft, with almost three hundred crew members perishing, and another sixty-six were destroyed by bombing raids, weather, or accidents. The average 1918 dollar cost  108 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  of a Zeppelin was about $100,000, so that the cost of lost airships was roughly $8.3 million, far more than the material damage inflicted on Great Britain. If one includes the cost of the total of 122 Zeppelins built, their expensive bases with huge rotating hangars and hydrogen-generating equipment, the air and ground crew training, and so on, it is evident that airship bombing campaigns were not cost effective. (All figures are in then-year values and based on contemporary exchange ratios, i.e. the pound being about five dollars and the dollar being about five marks.)  There is no question that the Zeppelin raids had an adverse effect upon British morale, although they did not crack, much l