d on January 31, 1965, being replaced by General John P. McConnell as Chief of Staff. The like- able McConnell lacked LeMay’s combat experience and did not have the personal wherewithal to challenge McNamara, in part because of a drinking problem.  328 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  McNamara decided that the war was to be conducted like corpo- rate accounting, with minute attention directed to the number of sorties flown, bombs dropped, and bodies counted, along with other totally irrelevant but highly quantifiable details. In the mud- dled process, it escaped notice that McNamara was not concentrat- ing on the ends of achieving strategic objectives, but was instead focused on those means that could be statistically quantified.  It thus happened that the American Secretary of Defense neutered United States air power, allowing it to be employed at an enormous cost of blood and treasure, but insuring by incredibly stu- pid policy decisions that it could not secure a victory. The possibili- ty of whether or not a victory could be secured by air power was debated all through the long agony of the Vietnamese war. But, as will be shown below, it was finally proved beyond any shadow of a doubt that air power could achieve victory in Vietnam in the eleven- day Linebacker II campaign of December 1972.  Air Power in Vietnam  Air-power naysayers are quick to point out that air power was not successful in bringing about victory in the Vietnam War. Air-power loyalists insist that air power was not applied correctly for almost the entire war, and that when it was, in December 1972, it worked. Other Air Force loyalists will protest that the Air Force did not have the right combination of doctrine, equipment, and training for combat in Vietnam, and there is much truth to the charge.  United States naval aviation, in contrast, was well suited for the war, given the limitations of the rotation of task force assets and the requirements for self-defense. It had virtual immuni