g this second blow, the Soviet Union lived up to its wartime treaties—and to its desire for revenge—declaring war on Japan on August 8. All of the major pow- ers were now arrayed against Japan, which had no allies, and no prospect for anything but defeat. Incredibly, the majority of Japanese leaders still argued against surrender. Japan still had almost 5,000,000 regular troops under arms as well as huge paramilitary forces. There were still 3,250 combat planes and 8,000 Kamikaze sui- cide planes available to attack the invasion force.” As the Japanese cabinet members debated, B-29s flew the length and breadth of Japan, not dropping bombs but leaflets telling the Japanese people  282 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  of the Potsdam Declaration, of the Soviet Union’s declaration of war, and of the true nature of the atomic bomb.  On August 10, the Japanese announced that they would be will- ing to accept the terms of the Potsdam Declaration provided that it did not prejudice the prerogatives of the emperor as their sover- eign. The routine bombing attacks that had continued were now stopped in the hope that negotiations would proceed. When noth- ing further was heard from the Japanese leaders, bombing was resumed, with LeMay putting 828 bombers and 128 fighters over Tokyo on August 14-15.  While the bombers were in the air, Emperor Hirohito himself stopped the arguments of his cabinet by insisting that the Potsdam Declaration be accepted. Before the last B-29 had returned from the last mission on August 15, the Japanese surrendered. (Some militant Japanese still rose in revolt, slaughtering dozens before they were subdued.) On September 2, the surrender was signed on the deck of the U.S.S. Missouri, in Tokyo Bay. In the two-week interval, the B-29s had another mission, dropping 5,000 tons of supplies to the more than 63,000 prisoners of war in camps in Japan, China, and Korea.  The great triumph of air power was that it averted the necessity for an invasion. E