H. 9 equipment available. He chose the second of the two alternatives available to him, to attack “as many large industrial cen- ters as it was possible to reach with the machines at my disposal.”* Trenchard believed that the moral effect of bombing was to the physical effects of bombing as twenty is to one, so that widespread bombing of many industrial centers would have the greatest cumu- lative effect from the equipment and weapons he had in hand.  When Trenchard looked to the future, he saw that it might be pos- sible to have aircraft capable of reaching long-distance targets in suffi- cient numbers to realize the first alternative. It was his belief, as it would be the belief of most air-power theorists, that the bombing could break the enemy’s will by striking industrial targets. He did not believe in the indiscriminate bombing of civilian targets, but he accepted that civil- ians would die accidentally when industrial targets were bombed. He also made a subtle distinction among civilian deaths, holding that killing a worker in an armaments factory was essentially no different from killing an enemy soldier, while killing someone not engaged in actual armament work was to be avoided if possible.  During his peacetime tenure as CAS, Trenchard retained his belief in the essential requirement to obtain air superiority. He also continued to believe that bombing did more to hurt morale than to damage industry, and for that reason, a strategic bombing campaign had to break the will of the enemy population to resist. His argu- ments would be accepted by RAF leaders philosophically and be incorporated into written doctrine. If all things had been equal, they  Growth of Air-Power Theory 131  would have been implemented during World War II. Unfortunately, his philosophy could not be executed for the Five Factors men- tioned above: reduced budgets, Great Britain’s perception of the threat to its security, advances in aviation technology, its political leaders, and a few o