of their American counterparts. Born in Kiev in 1907, Korolyov was caught up in Stalin’s purges, and spent six years of his life in Siberia. Reinstated as a colonel in the Red Army in 1945, he became as important to the Red Air Force as General Schriever had become to the USAF. The vehicles that Korolyov designed as ICBMs could also be modified into use as launchers for space craft, which were the designers’ real passion. Korolyov died at the age of fifty- nine, and many say that his death was a primary reason for the fail- ure of the Soviet effort to place a man on the moon.  The major military problem facing the United States was learning exactly how far the Soviet Union had progressed with its missile force. In 1960, John F. Kennedy made much of an alleged “missile gap” in his run for the presidency. President Eisenhower was in the invidious position of knowing that Kennedy was wrong, but was unable to say so because it would compromise American intelligence sources.  Eisenhower, along with other American military leaders, had been appalled by the growth in Soviet air power, and frustrated by their inabil- ity to determine just how great a threat it was. Secretly, and with great personal courage, for the political risk was enormous, Eisenhower had authorized the development of two invaluable information-gathering systems. One of these, the Lockheed U-2 spy plane, provided an immense amount of information initially, but later caused him immense embarrassment and a dressing down by Soviet Premier Khrushchev. The other, the CORONA (aka DISCOVERER) satellite, would become the greatest intelligence bonanza in the history of warfare.  These two developments, the U-2 and the DISCOVERER, herald- ed an entirely new era in the history of air power, influencing history beyond the dreams of any previous aviation prophet or practitioner.    306 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  The new technologies would also present enormous challenges for those who wished to articula