d the observer in the front seat, under the wing, from where it was almost impossible to shoot.  Fighters and Bombers 77  Air combat is difficult under all circumstances, as it is conducted in three dimensions at relatively high combined speeds, and shoot- ing requires great skill to anticipate where the always-moving target will be. With the machine gun firing through the propeller, the pilot merely had to align the flight of his machine with that of the enemy and fire, making a very complicated task much easier. (This is an oversimplification, but it illustrates the advantage of a syn- chronized machine gun.)  Garros, who won fame with the first flight across the Mediterranean before the war, had a specially modified aircraft that had been fitted with deflectors on the propeller and, some sources say, also with a crude form of synchronizing gear with which a pioneer aircraft firm, Morane-Saulnier, had been experi- menting. It was a brave effort, for 10 percent of the bullets being fired would strike the steel wedges, and as delicate as the thin wooden whirling propeller was, it was quite likely that a few hits could destroy it. Garros used his Morane-Saulnier Parasol Type L (a high-wing monoplane, not the shoulder-wing Type N example in which he is usually pictured) to shoot down three aircraft before he himself was brought down and captured on April 18, 1915, by a chance shot from an infantry rifle. (Garros escaped in early 1918, returning to fly a SPAD in a much more complex peri- od of air combat. He was killed one month before the November 11 armistice. The great tennis stadium in Paris is named for him.) The engine and machine gun from Garros’s aircraft were given to the Dutch plane-builder, Tony Fokker, for analysis. Fokker’s engi- neers were evidently familiar with the pre-war patents of Franz Schneider for a synchronizing mechanism, and soon came up with an interrupter gear that permitted firing the gun through the propeller. The device was placed in a few