ning success of Sputnik. An overwhelming fear had grown of Soviet capability in bombers and ICBMs, fears that had to be responded to in the United States’ defense budget.  These fears were partly dispelled by the U-2 flights, but by June 1964, CORONA had photographed all twenty-five Soviet ICBM complexes and offered convincing evidence that there was neither a missile nor a bomber gap and that United States strategic nuclear forces were already adequate for any task that might be levied upon them. This knowledge permitted a reduction in defense spending and a reallocation of the defense budget, both of which more than compensated for all of the costs involved in the DISCOVERER/ CORONA projects. In the words of the Director of Central Intelligence, Robert Gates, in November 1999, for the United States  310 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  “during the last two-thirds of the Cold War . . . there were no more strategic surprises.”"”  It is impossible to overestimate the importance of the CORONA satellites, nor to comprehend their incredible effects upon history. By far the most important of these effects was the prevention of the United States from making a fatal miscalculation about Soviet capa- bilities and intentions. Ironically, CORONA thus proved to be almost as great an advantage to the Soviet Union as the United States, for it ruled out an inadvertent escalation that might have led to an all-out nuclear exchange.  The success of CORONA signaled the maturation of air power into aerospace power, a process that had begun with Sputnik and would accelerate over time for it was inextricably linked with Moore’s Law and the swift progress of computers. In 1964, semi- conductor engineer Gordon Moore observed that the amount of information storable on a given amount of silicon had roughly doubled every year since the technology was invented. This rela- tionship held until 1970, when the doubling period slowed to about eighteen months, a rate it has since sustained.