ectators restrained it by holding four guide ropes.  Unlike the utilitarian colors that characterize the Space Shuttle, the balloon was decorated beautifully in blue and gold, displaying    390 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  signs of the Zodiac, the fleurs-de-lis, and the king’s royal monogram, thus being altogether worthy of the king’s interest and patronage.  Rozier and the Marquis d’Arlandes took off on November 21 from the Bois de Boulogne to the cheers of a huge crowd. The initial heat for the ascent of their Montgolfier came from the fire pit, which had been fueled with such noxious elements as old shoes and wet straw to generate the maximum amount of smoke—still thought to be the lift- ing agent. In flight, they sustained the lift with judicious applications of fuel to the fire that was carried on board in the center of the bottom of the balloon. In the next twenty-five minutes, they flew five miles across Paris and overcame the world’s first in-flight emergency, putting out the small fires that were burning holes in the envelope of their bal- loon. The first small aviation steps for humankind had been made in Paris, just 186 years before similar steps would be made on the moon.  Etienne Montgolfier and the Marquis d’Arlandes visited Benjamin Franklin in his home shortly after the flight. Franklin, the venerated representative of the United States to France, waxed enthusiastic, and made the first predictions of what would become known as “ver- tical envelopment.” He suggested that the balloon might in fact give a turn to human affairs, one that would convince rulers of the folly of war. Using the quick mental arithmetic for which he was famous, Franklin estimated that five thousand balloons, each capable of car- rying two men, could not cost more than five ships of the line. He concluded that no sovereign could defend his country against such a force, which might appear at any place and any time. (And, given the vagaries of wind and weather, that is