om President Roosevelt, a similar group prepared AWPD/42, Requirement for Air Ascendancy. This action reflected a change in doctrinal thinking in which the air campaign was no longer to win the war but rather to prepare the way for the ground campaign. It was predicated upon obtaining air superiority by destroying the Luftwaffe in combat. As such, it predicted that “our current type  240 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  bombers can penetrate German defenses to the limit of their radius of operations without excessive losses.”'* Yet the doctrinal wheel had not turned finally in favor of fighter operation—it had simply begun to recognize the fact that there were now the resources avail- able to create the correct (that is, long-range) fighter force while continuing to undertake bomber operations.  Getting Started  The United States, anxious to make its mark in the air war, estab- lished the Eighth Air Force in 1942. The first American raid, coming in token form, took place on July 4 of that year when six American and six British crews raided four enemy airfields in Holland, using Douglas Bostons (RAF versions of the A-20 Havoc). The first United States heavy bomber raid came on August 17, with the commanding general of the Eighth Air Force, Brigadier General Ira Eaker, taking part. The Americans did not bomb Germany until January 27, when, as in the ill- fated British raid of December 1939, the target was Wilhelmshaven. Ninety-one bombers were dispatched, fifty-five made attacks, and three were destroyed. Damage to the Germans was minimal.  As minor as this effort was, compared to later raids, it was the start of a process that over the next thirty months would bring Germany to its knees. What no one knew on either side at the time was that the vital key to the success of the offensive would not be bombers, but fighters. From Douhet'’s time on, leaders in every air force, and their political bosses, had believed that the bomber would dictate the course of batt