at Ochey and placed under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Cyril L. N. Newall, later to become Chief of the Air Staff, RAF. Despite vicious winter weath- er, the new unit added two more squadrons and became the VIII Brigade. It made 142 bombing attacks, with fifty-seven of them on German military targets in Cologne, Stuttgart, Mannheim, Mainz, and Coblenz between October 11, 1917, and June 5, 1918.*  A second and far more significant result of the change in politics was a decision to relieve Trenchard of his command, replacing him with Sir Frederick Sykes, a longtime enemy of Trenchard.  Trenchard, while tremendously popular with his troops, was dif- ficult to deal with. One of his greatest admirers, Marshal of the Royal Air Force Sir John Slessor, describes him as inarticulate, a bad pilot, absentminded, and always mixing up people’s names.” He was regarded with cold hostility by many of his superiors for the infuriating way in which he responded to orders and suggestions. Nonetheless, he was a great wartime leader who would, in the ten years after the war, keep the Royal Air Force in being.  Trenchard’s demotion had led, after immense political backbit- ing, to his assignment as commander of the newly created Independent Force, which was intended to carry out a bombing offensive against Germany without being subject to the current demands of the battlefield. Trenchard was bitterly hurt by his dis- missal, and did not believe that the Independent Force was a good idea for several reasons, including the fact that there were not yet bombers with the capability to do an adequate amount of damage to German cities. Yet Trenchard’s appointment, his creation of the Independent Force as of June 6, 1918, and his use of that force would precondition Great Britain’s military strategy in World War II by establishing a tradition of courage and proficiency that would be echoed in Bomber Command.  Initially the Independent Force was the VIII Brigade renamed, including a day wing