an an immediate buildup of the Strategic Air Command (SAC) and the Air Defense Command (ADC), both of which had been established, along with the Tactical Air Command (TAC), in 1946. Because of the severely limited defense budgets, none of the three commands had flourished ini- tially. On October 19, 1948, Curtis E. LeMay, now a lieutenant gen- eral, became Commander in Chief of the Strategic Air Command, a position he would hold until June 30, 1957, the longest tenure of any United States military commander since General Winfield Scott who served as the Army’s senior general from 1852 to 1861. LeMay would build SAC into the strongest and most important military force in history, with one purpose in mind: to deter the Soviet Union from exercising its avowed first-strike policy.  LeMay’s goal was to make the Strategic Air Command so obvi- ously powerful that the Soviet Union would know that there was no possibility of making a first strike on the United States without receiving, in swift return, an overwhelming retaliatory strike that would wipe it out of existence. It is of key importance to note that unlike Hitler or Hirohito, relatively safe from conventional bombs in their underground bunkers, the Soviet leaders knew that in a full- fledged atomic attack, they would be killed as well as their ene- mies—a sobering incentive to find ways to avoid war.  LeMay succeeded on the basis of his wartime experience, using clas- sic “sweat instead of blood” techniques that demanded the utmost pro- fessional effort from the crews under his command. SAC’s buildup under LeMay’s guidance was extraordinary, particularly because he insisted on such very high standards at every level and in every unit. When he arrived at SAC, he found a mixed force of 837 aircraft, only 70 of which had an intercontinental capability. The bulk of his bomber force was B-29s. When he left SAC to become Vice Chief of Staff in 1957, he left behind the most superbly trained and equipped air force in histo