with the pre-war patents of Franz Schneider for a synchronizing mechanism, and soon came up with an interrupter gear that permitted firing the gun through the propeller. The device was placed in a few Fokker E I “Eindeckers” (single wingers) to begin the history of fighter avia- tion.  Even after creating the Eindecker, the Germans were not entire- ly sure how to use the aircraft. They were at their most successful in the defense of the homeland against long-range French bombing attacks, inflicting no less than nine casualties on one French forma- tion in August 1915. The Eindeckers were originally parceled out to various two-seater units, but elements of public relations and vain- glory came into play when two young German pilots, Lieutenants  78 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Oswald Boelcke and Max Immelmann, of Feld Fleieger Abteilung (Field Flying Section) 62 received Fokker E Is for their own use and promptly began to shoot down Allied aircraft with skill and precision.  The public relations of their victories was exploited primarily because the rest of the story of war in the trenches was so horrible that governments and the press both looked for anything that could be presented as good news. Vainglory arrived when it became known that medals, fame, and more awaited those who shot down enemy aircraft in great numbers.  While nominally friends, the two young pilots had very different personalities, with Immelmann being self-centered and intent only on his success. The likeable Boelcke, though eight months younger than his twenty-four-year-old colleague, was more mature and already beginning to develop the aerial tactics (the “Boelcke Dicta”) for which he would be famed.  The two men initially flew independently, but soon found that they had better success operating as a unit. They sought out enemy observation aircraft and dispatched them with a surprising head-on attack. Their scores mounted rapidly. Both men were awarded the coveted Pour le Mérite on