lowing, with- out proper authority, Gianni Caproni to proceed with the construc- tion of the first of his trimotor bombers for the Italian Air Force. Douhet had already angered his superiors by his pronouncements that bombing campaigns should be directed against the morale of an enemy’s population. In December 1914, they used his relation- ship with Caproni as a pretext to demote him from his position as Commander of the Aviation Battalion, sending him to serve with an Army division. Then, in 1916, when he inadvertently left behind material criticizing the Italian war effort, he was court-martialed and sentenced to a year in prison. (The American air-power advocate Billy Mitchell would suffer a similar if less draconian fate a decade    94 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  later.) Douhet used the prison time to good advantage to formulate his thoughts on air power, and returned to active duty in January 1918.  Thanks to Douhet, the Italians eventually possessed a small but efficient bomber force composed of three-engine Caproni bombers; upon this force would turn a number of powerful events in air-power history. Caproni began an Italian trend when he creat- ed his first three-engine bomber in 1913, for trimotors continued to be used by the Regia Aeronautica through World War IJ—and for the same reason, a lack of higher power engines. While the initial designs had three 100-horsepower engines, Caproni used larger engines as they became available, and his last World War I designs had engines of 200 hundred horsepower at a time when Great Britain was building the 360-horsepower Rolls-Royce Eagle engine.  The Capronis were used with good effect on the Italian front in two roles, serving as short-range tactical bombers to strike Austrian targets in mountainous areas, and as long-range attack aircraft to hit the Austrian naval base at Pola. The Capronis were also pressed into service in France, and a later model was selected for manufacture in the United States. Ma