speed, range, and maneuverability. This meant that other critical areas were slighted, including armor, self-sealing tanks, and even structural strength. This design failure was not a handicap when it was the Japanese who were doing all the shooting, but when they encountered an enemy that shot back, Japanese aircraft were terribly vulnerable.  The Japanese persistence in drawing the wrong conclusions from their combat with China is all the more remarkable, given their experience fighting against the Soviet Union during the 1937-39 period. The first major battle took place in July 1938, near Lake Khasan. After a series of ground battles, the Russians made a major attack on August 6, 1938, using heavy Tupolev TB-3 bombers to  Air Power and Its Influence Between the Wars 183  assault Japanese positions in a manner that prefigured Allied carpet bombing in World War II. Closely coordinated tank and infantry attacks followed, involving more than 250 Soviet aircraft. The Japanese for some reason had decided to withhold their own air power, and as a result were forced to agree to an embarrassing cease-fire.  Seeking revenge the following year, the 23rd Division of the Japanese Kwantung Army (which deemed itself almost independent from orders of the Imperial General Staff) moved into a disputed sec- tion of the Mongolian/Manchukuo/Korean border referred to as the Khalkhin-Gol. Future Marshal of the Soviet Union, Lieutenant General Georgi Zhukov, was sent to take command of Soviet forces, which included five hundred tanks and six hundred aircraft.  A series of major air battles ensued, some with as many as two hundred aircraft involved. Initially the Japanese held an advantage, inflicting a three-to-one loss ratio on the enemy. The Soviets responded by bringing their most expert pilots, blooded in the Spanish Civil War (see below), and, over time, the Soviet Air Force seized command of the air and decisively defeated the Japanese Air Force. It also provided effective close a