ters reveals just how deficient their approach and their apparatus were. Ader’s machines, which had received more than 500,000 francs ($100,000) in government financing, were immensely complicated and uncontrollable, and worse, shrouded in fraudulent claims that were later exposed. Bell believed that a flying machine should have the inherent stability to be found in kites, and specialized in intricate tetrahedral multi-cell kites that flew well on a cable, but led nowhere. Chanute acted as information central, gathering information from all over the world, and trying different ideas as they came to him on an almost ran- dom basis. He did well in recording and disseminating the actions of others, and created a successful biplane glider. However, he failed to develop a systematic program of his own. Perhaps his greatest failure was his inability to understand what the Wrights were doing, even though he visited them often and observed their activities. Chanute, for all his engineering background and immense knowl- edge of the aeronautical scene, never grasped that the Wrights had seen and solved the problem of flight in three dimensions. The French enthusiast Ferber was at best an inept copycat, also unable to see the heart of the Wright idea even after studying it, and strangely and sadly incapable of quality craftsmanship. His finished machines looked like a schoolboy’s drawing of the Wright glider. The Australian Hargrave might have been the best of the lot, but he was a kite-flyer, tied to antiquated ideas. Herring was bright and ambitious, perhaps the most able of all except for Lilienthal and the Wrights. Unfortunately he was a schemer, claiming ideas that were not his own, more prone to borrow ideas than to create them, and given to achieving his business goals by fraudulent claims to patents he did not own. Langley was the most culpable of all, a man of sci- ence who systematically ignored the scientific approach, and was content to scale up what was essentiall