sian VI Army Corps, which permitted the encirclement of the Russian Second Army.” Airmen also kept close tabs on the slow advance of the Russian First Army so that the Germans could use their forces against the Second Army without undue concern.  The combined result of German radio intelligence and recon- naissance by both aircraft and the Zeppelin L IV enabled General von Hindenburg to win the Battle of Tannenburg, in which Samsonov’s Second Army was crushed with a loss of 140,000 men, its commander committing suicide. This victory immediately relieved the pressure for recalling troops from the Western Front, and in fact, allowed troops to be sent from the east to the west as reinforcements. It also catapulted Hindenburg to the forefront of German military leadership, positioning him to become the revered president of Germany during the postwar years and the man who would acquiesce to Adolf Hitler’s accession to power as chancellor of Germany.  Hindenburg was quickly promoted to Generaloberst (equivalent of the U.S. four-star general rank). He was lavish in his praise of the aircrews who performed the reconnaissance, telling Major Siegert to tell his airmen “Without airmen, no Tannenberg!” In an inter- view with an Italian newspaper reporter, Hindenburg expanded on this situation saying, “However, the most remarkable people are my airmen. I cannot begin to tell you the remarkable things they have done on their reconnaissance missions.”  It should be noted here that in German crews, the observer was what today would be called the “aircraft commander,” while the pilot was essentially a chauffeur. German pilots were often enlisted men, and there are tales of an autocratic Prussian officer dragging his pilot out of the cockpit, throwing him to the ground, and beat- ing him after the pilot was forced to land behind enemy lines. The usual case, however, was that a close bond developed between “Franz and Emil,” the comic-strip names adopted for observer and pilot respecti