ir force’s relative share of that budget;  2. each nation’s contemporary political perception of the major threat to its security;  3. the level of aviation technology, expressed often in the early years by the emergence of a type of aircraft, such as a new bomber;  4. the national politics of the rulers of each nation (for example, Chamberlain’s policy of appeasement versus Hitler’s policy of aggression, the confused turmoil in France, and the isolationism of the United States, essentially, Mahan’s Character of Government);  5. and, most important of all, the relatively small number of peo- ple who are most influential in the command structure of an air force at various key periods.  The last item is perhaps the least obvious, despite its importance. It is interesting to note that these influential people are rarely aces, and are even more rarely well known. They are usually bright indi- viduals whose love of the service committed them to a career where financial rewards were nonexistent and chances of promotion were rare. Those careers, however, were filled with challenges that brought out the best in them, including opportunities to be respon- sible for innovations in weaponry that called for huge investments, and upon which their nation’s life would someday depend.  The list of five major factors is iconoclastic in that it runs counter to most analyses of past air-power events. These, in book or lecture form, are usually discussions of a war or a campaign and how they relate to a particular theory of air power. It is worthwhile to spend some time elaborating on the five major factors and note their relationship to the development of air power in each of the countries in which we are interested. Doing so will reveal how the world arrived at the air-power position it held upon the outbreak of war in 1939. It will also show the relatively small degree of influence exerted by most of the leading air- power theorists over this air-power position.  Great Britain No ma