he pattern for the future.  The architect of the St. Mihiel aerial offensive was Colonel Billy Mitchell, who assembled the largest air force ever committed to bat- tle and drew up plans for its employment.  Mitchell was regarded as a maverick by the regular United States Army establishment, but his talent and his contacts could not be denied, and he became Chief of the Air Service, First Army, the American Expeditionary Forces. In that capacity, he commanded no less than 1,481 aircraft and twenty balloons assembled from 101 British, French, and Italian squadrons, to be used in an offensive designed to pinch off a German salient at St. Mihiel. Among the air- craft were thirty Caproni “450s” and forty-eight Handley Page 0/400s.”” His planning was grandiose for the time, calling for simultaneous strikes by as many as five hundred aircraft at the enemy troops.  Bad weather and a preemptive German withdrawal blunted some of Mitchell’s planning efforts, but by the end of the battle, the Americans had flown 2,469 sorties, engaged in 135 aerial combats, and claimed 52 victories. Forty Allied crew members died in the action, and sixteen more were taken prisoner.  The battle set the tone for future American air operations, begin- ning the tradition that, whatever the odds and whatever the opposi- tion, no mission would ever be turned back. St. Mihiel also estab- lished Mitchell as one of the foremost air-power philosophers to emerge from World War I, and would be the platform from which he    98 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  influenced the strategy and planning not only of the United States, but of Japan, in the years to come." He was already originating a bombing philosophy that would parallel but not duplicate that of Douhet’s, and that would be realized in the 1920s with profound effect upon the world’s politics and weaponry.  The majority of American bombing was largely confined to sup- port of the armies in the field, although a covetous eye was cast on both t