ly few in number, and for the most part practitioners rather than academics. The first generation included Douhet, Trenchard, and Mitchell whose concepts were put into use in one form or another by military men of the second generation, including Arnold, Walker, Hansell, Kuter, Harris, Yamamoto, and others. One of the best known of the second generation philosophers was Alexander P. de Seversky, whose real merit lay not with his ideas, most of which were derivative, but in his genius to put those ideas in front of the American public. The third generation of philosophers did not have much of a philosophy to boast about, for theirs was the era of mutual assured destruction, of which the premier advocate was General Curtis LeMay.  But beginning with the Vietnam War, there emerged a host of philosophers, academics for the most part, but with many of the aca- demics being military officers. Air-power philosophy and doctrine began to be evaluated and written about much as were other acad- emic disciplines, with seminars, papers, journals, and books appear- ing in droves. Often of the highest caliber, some of the work was devoted to analyzing the philosophers of the past, some to deduc- ing an air-power philosophy from past campaigns, and some to prophesying the future of air power. Many of them have been cited in the present work, and they include in part works by John Boyd, Mark A. Clodfelter, Benjamin S. Lambeth, Phillip S. Meilinger, Karl P. Mueller, and John Warden.  Post World War IT Middle-East Conflicts, Terror, and the Modern Air War 355  These philosophers were faced with a far different and more receptive world than their predecessors in many respects, for their audience included an intelligent and well-read population of mili- tary leaders who accepted the concept of air power for the most part, and were willing to have its nuances examined. In biblical terms, if Douhet, Mitchell, and Trenchard were St. John the Baptist announc- ing a coming, the current air-p