supplemented by a hand- ful of Bristol Scouts. The B.E.12 had the “best” performance, but it was pitifully inadequate as a Zeppelin interceptor. Essentially an upgraded B.E.2c with a more powerful 140-horsepower engine, it had a top speed of 102 miles per hour, a service ceiling of 12,500 feet, and an endurance of three hours. It was very stable, however, which made it especially suitable for night flying on Home Defense work, an important feature given its lack of instruments and the fact that cockpit and airfield lighting were completely improvised. The B.E.12 was heavily armed for the time, with up to four Lewis machine guns or ten unguided Le Prieur rockets.  There was a tremendous discrepancy between the capabilities of the Home Defense aircraft and the intruding Zeppelins. Yet some- how the defenses worked, for on June 17, 1917, a B.E.12 piloted by Second Lieutenant Loudon Pierce Watkins shot down the Zeppelin L 48 on its first mission over England.  The L 48 was one of the new generation of “height climber” Zeppelins, especially designed to operate at altitudes as high as twenty thousand feet. These altitudes, while rendering the Zeppelin safe from attack, made navigation and bombing accuracy virtually impossible. It was, in addition, extremely difficult for the crew to endure the bitterly cold temperatures and the lack of oxygen. Primitive oxygen systems were available, but they themselves induced illness among the crew, who, in general, preferred a shot of brandy as an alternative to oxygen.  The L 48 was commanded by Kapitanleutnant der Reserve Franz George Eichler, on his thirteenth raid, leading four other Zeppelins, L 42, L 44, L 45, and L 47. His orders had been succinct: “Attack South England—if possible, London.” The L 48 encoun- tered some difficulty with its engines on the inbound leg of its mis- sion, but pressed on. After dropping a dozen bombs in open fields near Kirton, Eichler elected to gain the advantage of a tail wind and descended to 11,50