what they had available.  Italy Giulio Douhet (1869-1930) was perhaps the first of the true air- power philosophers, with his interest in military aviation beginning in 1905, when Count Almerigo da Schio built the airship Italia I. Douhet immediately established his career pattern by engaging in    Growth of Air-Power Theory 137  arguments with his superior, Colonel Maurizio Moris, about the rel- ative importance of the airship and the airplane. Airships were supreme to Moris, and Douhet had to fume as he saw as much as three-quarters of Italy’s Air Force budget spent on lighter-than-air craft as late as 1914." Moris was appointed Director General of Aeronautics from December 1918 to July 1920, dates which coin- cide with a less than glorious period of Douhet’s career.  Douhet started his military career as a twenty-three-year-old artillery officer in 1892. Early on he became convinced that an inde- pendent air force commanded by an airman was necessary. This could not be regarded as personal ambition, because Douhet him- self was not a pilot. He was, however, a good friend of Gianni Caproni, and the two would meld their talents, with Caproni build- ing large bombing aircraft, and Douhet rising to successively more important positions within the fledgling Italian air service. In 1912, Major Douhet commanded the Italian aviation battalion at Turin. He had just written a report on the extensive use of aircraft and air- ships in the Libyan war, and he next wrote “Rules for the Use of Aircraft in War,” the first written manual for the employment of air power in any air force.”  The fiery, diminutive major now had a platform from which to preach his message. Unfortunately his message was not well received by his superiors, and he began to be perceived as a politi- cal crank. Unlike Trenchard, but like Mitchell, Douhet had no patience with standard military practice, and abused his position as commander of the aviation battalion by ordering his friend Caproni to build sev