it was often easier to obtain a replacement from the factory than to obtain the parts necessary to repair a damaged plane. One natural result of this was for the Schwarze Mannen (Black Men), the black-overalled Luftwaffe mechanics, to hoard frequently needed parts, exacerbating the gen- eral shortage. Not until the dark days of the fall and winter of 1942 did the Luftwaffe, acting under procedures specified directly by Erhard Milch, begin to exercise the supply discipline that enabled damaged aircraft to be more rapidly returned to combat.  The Polish Air Force  In the early 1930s, the Polish Air Force had been one of the best armed in Europe, for it had been equipped with the series of gull- wing, all-metal monoplane fighters from its native Paristwowe Zaklady Lotnicze (National Aviation Establishment). The P.Z.L. P.7 and P.11 fighters were designed by Zygmunt Pulawski. The Polish fighter force became the first in the world to be armed entirely by all-metal monoplanes, which were exported to several countries. Polish leadership had expected a war with Germany to come by 1936, and had armed accordingly.  By 1939, however, the P.Z.L. fighters were completely outmoded by their German counterparts. When war broke out, Poland had only 397 aircraft it considered “first line” to oppose the Nazi onslaught. These were in fact obsolete, and consisted of 159 fight- ers and 154 bombers, with the remainder being observation planes.‘  The Polish Air Force had been plagued by well-intentioned but ill-informed leadership for almost its entire existence. The great Polish hero, Marshal Jozef Pilsudski, regarded aviation as a sec- ondary service, and in August 1929 directed that “aviation is to serve only for reconnaissance and only in this direction should it be used.” The succeeding Polish governments continued to downplay aviation. In the four years before the war, the Polish cavalry received twice as much of the tiny defense budget as did aviation.’  On September 1, 1939, some 1,