ding race before World War I, had required such a large ratio of support to combatant per- sonnel, nor such a huge industry to support it.    22 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Continued Lighter-Than-Air Progress  While the basic systems of the hydrogen balloon had been pro- vided in the very earliest days of ballooning by Professor Jacques Alexandre César Charles, the necessary components to create a bal- loon that could be flown under power against the wind and steered in a desired course came much later, as did the term to describe such a conveyance, “dirigible.” Dirigibles were subject to continu- ous improvement, a process that goes on to this day.  The first practical airship was conceived of in 1785 by General Jean-Baptiste Marie Meusnier, but was not built because there was no adequate power plant. Several people pursued the basic Meusnier idea, but Henri Giffard was the most successful, flying his airship from the Paris Hippodrome on September 24, 1852. Essentially a 144-foot- long, football-shaped envelope filled with hydrogen, Giffard’s dirigi- ble was powered by a three-horsepower steam engine that enabled it to achieve a speed of six miles per hour. Giffard, who at the age of twenty-four had invented the injector used in all steam engines of the time, piloted his craft from a small open basket suspended beneath the envelope. After a second dirigible of his design crashed, he turned to ballooning again, creating an 883,000-cubic-foot monster that was the largest hydrogen balloon ever built and a great success at the 1878 Paris World’s Fair.  The dangerous combination of a coal-burning steam engine and a hydrogen-filled envelope was evident to all, and alternatives were sought. Things were somewhat simplified when coal gas for inflat- ing the envelope became more generally available, and later, when the internal combustion engine came into general use.  These two innovations were first exploited by Paul Haenlein. In 1872, Haenlein’s large 1872 ai