ession. In the process he developed better materials for balloons and experimented with parachutes, using them to drop animals safely to the ground. Even more miraculous, he made a liv- ing by flying balloons. Wise had proposed sending war balloons to bomb into surrender the Castle of San Juan de Ulua at Vera Cruz in 1846, before the start of General Winfield Scott’s ultimately success- ful land campaign that ended the Mexican war in victory in 1848.  Ambition seemed to be an occupational hazard of balloonists, and Wise was consumed by it, for he wished to use the prevailing west-to-east winds to fly across the Atlantic Ocean. It was a daunting task, one that would not be accomplished until the flight of the Double Eagle ITin 1978. The challenge also fascinated one of his for- mer students and future rival, John La Mountain.  La Mountain had attracted sufficient capital from a wealthy investor, O. A. Gager, to make a transatlantic balloon of 120,000- cubic-foot capacity and able to lift 25,000 pounds. Some 2,200 yards of Chinese silk were used in its construction, and a lifeboat was pru- dently slung beneath the conventional basket. The Trans-Atlantic Balloon Corporation was formed, with La Mountain, Gager, Wise, and two investors as principals.  A preliminary test of the Adlantic, as it was optimistically named, took place on July 1, 1859, lifting off from St. Louis with La Mountain, Wise, Gager, and William Hyde, a newspaperman, on board. It was an epic voyage, filled with storms, danger, and finally a risky landing at Henderson, New York. In an unparalleled flight, they had traveled 809 miles in twenty-hours and forty minutes. The stage was set for further great adventures—but arguments inter- vened that left Wise and La Mountain enemies and substantially affected ballooning in the Civil War. There was no questioning the patriotism of these men; the problem was their ego, which demand- ed primacy of place in the ballooning world.  Wise at fifty-three was widely r