The average British citizen reportedly pronounced it “Torb.”  Bombing and the National Psyches  The bombing campaigns of World War I were limited compared to those of one war later, yet so much happened during both the British and the German campaigns that it is worthwhile to examine them in considerable detail.  Anyone standing in the shattered ruins of Berlin in the summer of 1945 would have been amazed and disheartened to know that the massive destruction had its start with the reports (not confirmed in England) of a raid by Lieutenants Karl Caspar and Roos (first name unknown) in one of the ubiquitous Taubes on October 25, 1914. The first confirmed report of a raid on England came on December 21, when Kapitanleutnant zur See Stephan von Prandzynski, flying a German Friedrichshafen FF 29, dropped two small bombs in the sea near Dover’s Admiralty Pier. A second raid on December 24 by the same type of twin-float, two-seat biplane caused an estimated forty (English) pounds in damage when it struck in a resident’s gar- den near the Castle at Dover. Thus sewn were truly minor winds that would reap inconceivably massive whirlwinds across Europe and Asia only thirty years later.  These first German raids were correctly regarded as mere pinpricks, for the English public had been firmly fixated on the possibility of Zeppelin raids, so much so that before the war “phantom airships” had been seen over England on much the same basis that UFOs were seen half a century later. This mass apprehension was due in part to literary  Fighters and Bombers 101  works such as H. G. Wells’ famous The War in the Air and in part to Germany’s boasting about the effectiveness of the Zeppelin.  The boasting sprang from the almost hysterical adulation of Count Zeppelin and his creations in Germany. This national enthu- siasm reached to the very highest levels, including the Kaiser and the Chief of Staff, von Moltke, and the German airship fleet (which included both Zeppelins and the Schitte-La