ond front that he demanded. The Soviet Union had borne the brunt of the fighting since June 22, 1941. Stalin pointed out this fact on every occasion, and sometimes hinted that unless a second front were forthcoming he might be forced to reach an accommodation with the Germans, the thing the Western Allies feared above all oth- ers. So, in a curious fashion, Allied air power was more influential on the historical process than ever before at a time when it was still rela- tively weak. The combined bombing campaign, first announced at the January 1943 Casablanca Conference, was not only a statement of policy, it was a palliative to Stalin’s justified anger over the absence of a second front on the European continent.  The relatively low level of effort came about because the Eighth was in a learning process. It was true that hundreds of aircraft and hundreds of newly trained crews had been sent to Britain. What was not understood was that these crews had not been trained to the level necessary for combat in instrument flying, bombing, forma- tion flying, and gunnery. Nor was it realized how severe the short- ages would be of spare parts, tools, and air crews. Then, towering above all these problems was the weather, which during all but the short summer allowed an average of only five bombing days per month. In brief, it was not sufficient to provide a crew with perhaps three hundred hours flight training, then give them a B-17 or a B- 24 to fly across the Atlantic to Europe. The German enemy was pro- fessional and efficient, and the bomber crews had to be taught com- bat flying, a lesson soon learned and never forgotten by a young wing commander, then-Colonel Curtis E. LeMay.  LeMay insisted on intense training. Working with Brigadier General Laurence S. Kuter, he developed the combat box and combat wing    242 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  formations that were intended both to increase defensive firepower and improve bombing accuracy. In the combat box, eig