tics he had advocated without success at the Air Corps Tactical School proved in combat. The AVG was absorbed into the USAAF on July 4, 1942, with Chennault ultimately becoming a major general commanding the Fourteenth Air Force. The Fourteenth conducted an unremit- ting aerial campaign against Japan until the close of the war.  China also became the operating location of the Twentieth Air Force, which was to conduct Boeing B-29 operations against Japan. President Roosevelt had promised Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek personally that bombing operations against Japan would begin before November 1944. The Twentieth Air Force had been organized by Hap Arnold himself, and remained under his direct command with Major General Haywood S. (“Possum”) Hansell Jr. as his Chief of Staff. Hansell was a graduate of ACTS, and had flown with Chennault on the “Three Men on the Flying Trapeze” flying team. A founding  True Air Superiority, Then Absolute Air Supremacy, 1944-45 275  member of the “bomber mafia,” Hansell had done yeoman work on AWPD/1 and AWPD/42. In Europe he had successfully commanded both Boeing B-17 and Martin B-26 bomber wings. By the time it was operational, XX Bomber Command had 20,000 officers and men to operate the first increment of approximately 150 B-29s. It was in effect, a testing ground for the B-29 bombing campaign.  XX Bomber Command conducted initial operations from China, led by the man responsible for the successful B-29 program, Major General Kenneth B. (“K. B.”) Wolfe. Operations from China were extremely difficult because of the unreliability of the B-29’s Wright R-3350 engines and of the intrinsically unsolvable problem of flying the mammoth quantities of fuel and bombs across the Himalayas to the operating fields in Chengtu, China. B-29s had to be pressed into service as tankers and transports, consuming fuel as they carried fuel, defeating the object of fielding a strong force of the aircraft. The first combat mission, to Bangkok, was flown on Ju