uftwaffe.  Germany, perhaps more than any other nation, forgot its hard- earned naval air-warfare experience learned in World War I, and suffered for it greatly during World War II. This probably came about because Hermann Goering, the Luftwaffe Commander in Chief, was so jealous of his own prerogatives that he eschewed coop- eration with his naval counterparts, and refused to allocate the nec- essary assets to naval requirements.  One of the totally unintended consequences of the success of reconnaissance aircraft on both land and sea was the extension of its    Air Power in World War I 73  mission to drop bombs, with the result that specially designed bomber aircraft came into being. Both reconnaissance aircraft and bombers required counter measures, and the best one developed was the fighter—another new and specialized aircraft type.    Chapter Three  Fighters and Bombers  The military potential of enemy observation aircraft was so great that an entire new combat arm, fighter aviation, grew up to defeat them. It can be said of fighters that they are at once the least useful and most important of aircraft types. They are least useful in the sense that they (as a pure fighter) do not drop bombs nor gather information, and their dogfights, while colorful, do not gain any- thing for either side except the possibility of air superiority. And that one fact is the reason that they are the most important type, for the obtaining of air superiority dictates the operation of other types of aircraft, including the bombers and reconnaissance types.  Once both sides created fighters, a seesaw battle for air suprema- cy immediately ensued, for to defeat the observation planes, one had first to defeat the fighter planes protecting them. As each side introduced a new fighter, the other side would attempt to counter; this competition led to a rapid improvement in the quality not only of fighter aircraft, but of all aircraft, as the natural engineering spin- offs accrued. The gradu