he Soviet Union practiced dis- information with great skill, even to the point that there were no reli- able tourist maps of Moscow or Leningrad. The only available maps were those made from photos taken by German reconnaissance planes before and during World War II. As a result, the United States had no accurate knowledge of the number of bombers possessed by the Soviet Union, and even more important, it had little knowledge about the state of the Soviet ICBM development.  The Race to Aerospace Power  The space race began with a series of Soviet triumphs and American failures. This gave rise to jokes by comedian Bob Hope and others that in the Soviet rocket program “their German rocket scientists were better than our German rocket scientists.”  While the joke was not literally true (it is generally agreed that the United States obtained the cream of the German scientific crop), both the American and Soviet programs were founded on the German missile programs of World War II, and fostered by the German scientists who were eagerly snapped up by both countries at the end of the war.  The Soviet Union had some initial advantages, in that it did not face the bitter interservice rivalry that characterized the disputes over which service would control the missile programs within the United States. After much wrangling, a decision was made on November 26, 1956, assigning the responsibility for various types of missiles among the services. The USAF received responsibility for the operational employment of intercontinental ballistic missiles and a joint assignment, with the Army, for intermediate-range bal- listic missiles.  The USAF was pleased with the responsibility, for it saw missiles merely as “unmanned bombers” and had already done a significant    The Cold War, 1945-62 301  amount of research work. Unknown at the time, however, was the fact that the responsibility would cause significant problems within the USAF when missiles became a larger element of the force stru