o the desired goal. And under the severely limited budget, success in getting these goals accomplished could be achieved only at the cost of the goals of another organization.  And so it was with all of the improvements, from cockpit armor to controllable-pitch propellers to training mechanics in the new systems. Each one represented a fight for budget, personnel, and prestige, and each one was hotly contested. Such narrow-vision parochialism was not confined to the RAF, of course; it existed and still exists in all bureaucracies.  The third and even more important new technology made its appearance at about the same time the Hurricane and Spitfire were taking form, and would become known as radar. Henry Tizard, who as a RFC test pilot during World War I had helped solve the critical problem of how to recover from a tailspin, was now Chairman of    Growth of Air-Power Theory 135  the Aeronautical Committee of the RAF, which met for the first time on January 28, 1935. Tizard consulted with R. A. Watson-Watt, who two weeks later submitted a paper on “Detection and Location of Aircraft by Radio Methods,” which was the genesis of the British radar system.  Radar and the new interceptors made Baldwin’s statement that the bombers would always get through far less certain. Moreover, it relegated to the same wastebasket Trenchard’s ideas about keeping fighters to the minimum number possible.  The Royal Air Force was blessed with excellent leaders who could capitalize on the advances in technology, and after 1938, on the increased funding that was available. Among those leaders were the Chief of Staff and Marshal of the Royal Air Force, Sir Edward Ellington; his successor (and a former commander of the 41st Wing of the Independent Force), Air Chief Marshal and future CAS, Sir Cyril Newall; a dynamo and innovator, Air Chief Marshal Sir Wilfrid Freeman; the future hero of the Battle of Britain, Air Chief Marshal Hugh C. T. Dowding; Air Commodore Edgar Ludlow-Hewitt; Wing Comma