einrich of Prussia was the well-liked fig- ure who led a drive in 1912 that netted the National Aviation Fund 7.2 million marks. These were used to purchase 62 aircraft and trained no less than 162 pilots. In Russia, the Grand Duke Aleksandr Mikhailovich became the royal patron of aviation. (The grand duke, after failing in his attempts to establish a reasonable government in Russia, would in 1916 predict the revolution.’) With the    Fledgling Wings 43  Imperial All-Russian Aero Club he worked both inside the govern- ment and with the public to raise funds, buy aircraft, establish flying fields, and train pilots.* Similar, if smaller, organizations would be found in Austro-Hungary, Great Britain, and Italy, doing much the same work in much the same way.  Another factor in common among the great nations that would soon be tearing at each other’s vitals was the basic similarity of the equipment available to them. While aviation progress had been rapid since 1903, and especially since 1909, it was still quite early in the history of aeronautics, and all nations were more than content just to have their air forces equipped with two-place aircraft for use in reconnaissance. They were stable, slow, and while often unreli- able, nonetheless provided that crucial look at “the other side of the hill.” There were, in all countries, air-power advocates and prophets who saw the future and knew that it consisted also of bombing air- craft and fighters whose task it was to prevent the enemy from observing and bombing. But, correct in their ideas as they may have been, they were in the minority, for aviation technology had not yet reached a point where their claims could be justified. Indeed, some of the more extravagant claims could not be justified for another thirty years, but the reasonable claims were within only a few years of being proven.  The soon-to-be combatant nations were similar in another way. While all wished to see a strong civilian aircraft industry in their hom