rties were flown from the USS Ticonderoga and the USS Constellation on August 5, striking North Vietnamese petro- leum storage facilities and naval vessels.’  Side Effects of the Success in Cuba  Many of President Kennedy's advisers (too many, according to some) had been held over when he was succeeded by President Johnson. Many of these same advisers had worked to the successful conclusion of the Cuban Missile Crisis, and they had the false impres- sion that they could use the same negotiating tactics with the North Vietnamese that had been successful with the Soviet Union. It was their intention to “teach” the North Vietnamese leaders that their political aspirations to absorb South Vietnam would have to be changed because they were opposed by the United States. This con- cept would have disastrous effect, for it resulted in air power being applied in too small doses over too long a period of time. The United States became, in effect, North Vietnam’s personal trainer, instruct- ing it in penny-packet lessons on how best to defend against attack.  While the decisions of the president were always final, and while many others contributed to the decision-making process, there is no question that Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara guided the United States into the war in Southeast Asia. Unfortunately, McNamara chose to base United States strategy on the obvious—and fatally flawed—fiction that the war was merely a civilian insurrection in South Vietnam that pitted a rebel National Liberation Front (Viet Cong) movement against the South Vietnamese government. Yet McNamara knew very well that the war was in fact a deliberate attempt by North Vietnam’s inspirational leader Chairman Ho Chi Minh to overthrow the South Vietnamese government and establish a unified Communist state under his leadership.  One aspect of McNamara’s insurgency viewpoint was that the Viet Cong were to be considered a rebellious opposition party to the    The Cold War, 1963-73 323  South Vietnam