, 1980-88  The vast distance between the Western and the Middle Eastern military mind-set was demonstrated by the manner in which air power was either ill-used or ignored in the long, eight-year struggle between Iraq and Iran.  By his ruthless suppression of opposition, Saddam Hussein had turned Iraq into a compliant police state; his opposition was purged with a thorough ferocity that made Stalin’s similar efforts in the 1930s seem merciful. It was his grandiose intent to conquer Iran as    Post World War IT Middle-East Conflicts, Terror, and the Modern Air War 351  a first step toward dominating the Arab world, and presenting Iraq as a superpower equivalent to the United States or the USSR.  Iraq attacked Iran, which was four times its size and had three times the population, as a means of settling old political and religious scores and taking advantage of the unrest caused by the removal of the Shah and the beginning of the Ayatollah Ruhollah Kohmeini’s regime. In 1980, both countries had sizeable air forces. The Iranian Islamic Air Force (IIAF) had 77 Grumman F-14A Tomcats for home defense, 188 McDonnell Douglas Phantom II fighter-bombers, and 166 Northrop F-5E/F fighter-bombers, along with a surprisingly large inventory of support aircraft that included tankers. The Iraqi Air Force (IQAF) was equipped with 300 combat aircraft, including 80 MiG-23 fighter-bombers, 40 Sukhoi Su-7b fighter-bombers, 40 Sukhoi Su-20 fighter-bombers, and 115 MiG-21 fighter-interceptors.’  The opening attack by the IQAF drew on lessons hard learned in the Arab/Israeli war of 1967. Iraqi planes attacked ten different Iranian airfields on September 22, 1980, while Iraqi armor drove into disputed border territory.  There followed an eight-year-long struggle in which the respec- tive air forces flew many missions against enemy targets, but always on a small scale, usually with no more than six aircraft involved. Neither side attempted to gain air superiority by eliminating the enemy in ai