500 and the Royal Air Force and Royal Australian Air Force about 5,000. Of the missions some 36 percent were strike sorties, 20 percent were tanker missions, and 25 percent were airlift missions, with 4 percent miscellaneous.’  Of the 28,820 munitions that were dropped, 19,060 were precision-guided, an amazing 66 percent. The aerial refueling figures showed that 417,137,233 gallons of fuel was offloaded by tankers of all the services. Another 195,753,818 gallons of jet fuel were provided by land- and ship-based sources.  Weapons of Mass Destruction  Military operations benefited from the Iraqi failure to use weapons of mass destruction (WMD), for while chemical or biological weapons could have been overcome, they would have impeded progress, perhaps for weeks. It is possible that Iraqi leaders still possessed WMD, but were deterred from their use by repeated coalition warnings that doing so would be a war crime.  The primary military objective for discovering Iraqi weapons of mass destruction was to prevent their use. The failure to find WMD as of the date of this writing has been politically harmful to the United States, particularly to President Bush. It is possible that the Iraqis transported their weapons of mass destruction to Syria or Iran.  Aftermath and Lessons to be Learned  The United States had evolved a new way to fight wars, almost without regard to the skill or size of an opponent. The formula includes complete information dominance through C‘ISR and complete air dominance that includes loitering platforms equipped with precision-guided munitions. These, when used in combination with swift and powerful land forces, make victory inevitable.  380 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  One of the most important lessons learned by the armed services is that joint and combined operations can work well only if the concept is adhered to through all levels from the Commander in Chief down to the newest enlisted person. This was achieved in Operation Iraqi Fr