d of 115 miles per hour, proved Baldwin’s point conclusively. The inter- ceptors that failed to intercept were also biplanes, armed with small- caliber machine guns. In stark contrast, Germany was fielding one modern aircraft after another, replacing its biplane fighters with the Messerschmitt Bf 109, and its Junkers Ju 52/3m bomber fleet with more modern Junkers Ju 86s and Heinkel He 111s. As late as September 3, 1937, the future Marshal of the Air Force, Sir John Slessor, estimated that Germany had eight hundred long-range bombers and Italy four hundred, contrasted to Great Britain’s nine- ty-six. The RAF’s bombers were sorry examples as well, consisting of thirty-six each single-engine Vickers Wellesley, and twin-engine Bristol Blenheims, along with twelve each of the pathetic single- engine Fairey Battles and the equally inadequate twin-engine Handley Page Harrows.*  What was not given sufficient consideration was that as modern as the German Luftwaffe was reputed to be, there was no way that it could have delivered a “knockout” blow even with repeated attacks. There were simply too few aircraft, too small bombs, and too many targets for this to happen.  Here the budget restrictions intersected with national politics and, most fortunately, with technology. Thomas Inskip, who had acceded to the reversion of the Fleet Air Arm to the Navy, was min- ister for coordination of defense with the customary charter to reduce spending. Inskip saw that he could procure three fighters for the cost of one bomber, and that there were on the horizon three significant technological advances that would augment defense. The first of these was the Rolls-Royce Merlin engine, which would power the new fighters and many other aircraft as well. The second was the advent of two new fighters, the Hawker Hurricane and the Supermarine Spitfire. These aircraft departed completely from the  134 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  previous World War I biplane standard, being cantilever-w