than fifteen miles wide at its nar- rowest point. This diminutive size posed almost insuperable prob- lems for its ground forces, which could be attacked anywhere around its perimeter, but offered a tremendous advantage to its Air Force, which could depart the country in an instant in any direction to attack its foes. (The small size of the country was a double-edged sword, however, for the Air Force had little time in which to react to an attack. One Israeli officer said that “Israel is like a stationary air- craft carrier, permanently stationed in hostile waters.”)  Israel’s first major exercise in the use of air power came in the Suez Canal fiasco. The president of Egypt, Gamal Abdel Nasser, who continually threatened Israel with extinction, had sponsored feday- een terrorist attacks and formed a military alliance with Syria. The    344 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Soviet Union sought to extend its influence in the Middle East by funneling massive military aid to Egypt, including great quantities of armor and two hundred modern jet aircraft. Emboldened, Nasser nationalized the Suez Canal on July 26, 1956, and announced the abrogation of the Anglo-Egyptian treaty.  France and Britain, both infuriated and mortified, solicited Israel’s help in a joint operation. It happened that Israel had already determined to take military action against Egypt, Syria, and Jordan, who had formed a joint military command to attack Israel.  At 3:00 p.M. on October 29, 1955, the Israelis launched an aerial attack, disrupting Egyptian communications and dropping 395 men of the crack Israeli 202nd Parachute Brigade at the entrance to Mitla Pass, deep in the Sinai desert. Future Prime Minister Lieutenant Colonel Ariel (“Arik”) Sharon commanded the 202nd. Following up with a series of swift military movements, the Israelis conquered the entire Sinai as well as the Gaza Strip.  The French and British then played their cards, calling for a with- drawal of both Egyptian and Israe