not yet mature. Unlike France, where airmen had seemed to spring like dragons’ teeth from the ground, the aircraft industry had a labored beginning. The Wright brothers had formed a company in Germany with strong backing from the giants of German industry. Unfortunately, the Wright design was obsolete, and only a few aircraft were sold. When war broke out, there were about a dozen aircraft manufacturers in Germany, including many that would soon become well known, such as Albatros, Aviatik, Fokker, Gotha, Pfalz, Roland, and Rumpler. Other firms shared the German predilection for long, intricate names, so that there were Allgemeine Elektrizitats-Gesellschaft (A.E.G), Lufthfarzeug Gesellschaft (L.F.G), Luft Verkehrs Gesellschaft m.b.H. (L.V.G.), and Deutsche Flugzeug-Werke (D.F.W). These companies did not become as well known outside of Germany, but produced large numbers of excellent observation and training aircraft.  In the course of the war, Germany was hampered by a lack of nat- ural resources and the Allied blockade from expanding its aircraft    52 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  industry to the extent that the Allies did. It compensated in part for this lack by shaping its strategy and tactics to accommodate the dis- parity in numbers. This compensation not only affected the out- come of World War I, it also influenced political and military events during both the postwar period and in World War II. Nonetheless, the Germans were able to increase production steadily during the war, so that the Luftstreitkrafte remained a formidable opponent until the last day of the war, when there were more than 11,000 ser- viceable aircraft in Germany. Production for the first ten months of 1918 was small by Allied standards, with 14,356 aircraft and 16,412 engines delivered.”  The level of effort for the Imperial Russian Air Service (IRAS) was much lower, with only about 5,000 aircraft being produced by the time power passed from the Romanoys to the Bolsheviks in 19