s of swift military movements, the Israelis conquered the entire Sinai as well as the Gaza Strip.  The French and British then played their cards, calling for a with- drawal of both Egyptian and Israeli forces, and making a massive air attack that destroyed more than a hundred Egyptian aircraft. On November 5, an invasion followed, intended to take the Suez Canal and reverse Nasser’s nationalization.  To the utter amazement of France and Britain, the United States and the Soviet Union joined together in the United Nations Security Council to denounce their actions. Britain immediately agreed to a humiliating cease-fire, and France soon followed suit. What had started off as an incisive Anglo-French military operation to seize the Suez ended in a fiasco that vastly increased the prestige of Nasser in the Arab world.  The Anglo-French debacle was a perfect illustration of ill-found- ed confidence in the influence of air power. The combined air power of France, Britain, and Israel was dominant over Egypt—but impotent in the halls of the UN. Nonetheless, the stage was set for a demonstration of the influence and the decisiveness of air power in the next Arab/Israeli war.  The Six-Day War, June 1967  Despite—or perhaps because of—Nasser’s constant threats to obliterate Israel, his prestige began to dim by 1967, and he found    Post World War II Middle-East Conflicts, Terror, and the Modern Air War 345  himself at odds with much of the Arab world, including Yemen, Saudi Arabia, and Jordan. In an effort to regain his popularity, he placed seven divisions, with close to 85,000 men, on the Israeli bor- der, and closed the Straits of Tiran to Israel, an act of war that defied the mandate of the United Nations.  King Hussein of Jordan placed Jordan’s armed forces under Nasser’s command, and Iraq did the same. Other Arab states sent contingents of troops, arms, and funds as a gesture of support of the one aim upon which all agreed: the destruction of Israel.  The crisis was agg