ded invasion of New Guinea. Strangely enough, given his intelligence and his experience, Yamamoto made his third mistake, one that would also ultimately cost him his life. He did not—as he almost certainly should have—infer from the sudden and surprising appearance of the United States fleet that the Japanese naval codes might be com- promised. Instead, he began planning the Battle of Midway, and in doing so, repeated the errors of the Battle of the Coral Sea. In both instances he did not suspect that Japanese radio traffic was being read and understood, and in both instances divided his forces, a vio- lation of the fundamental principle of concentration of mass.  The division of forces was a reflection of his ill-founded confi- dence in Japanese air power, as can be seen in the way he earmarked his aircraft carriers for the operation. He had an immense 165-ship naval force at his disposal for the Battle of Midway. His headquarters were on the world’s most powerful warship, the 68,000-ton Yamato. There were also six other battleships, five aircraft carriers, ten heavy cruisers, four light cruisers, forty-four destroyers, and a host of smaller warships and auxiliary craft. He diluted his strength by split- ting his force into five separate groups, which were then split again into sixteen individual units. The most important of the groups, the Striking Force, consisted of four of the carriers that had attacked    The Growth of Air Power, 1941-43 229  Pearl Harbor—Soryu, Kaga, Akagi, and Hiryu. They carried a total of about 330 aircraft of the same type that attacked Pearl Harbor, and once again all under the overall command of Admiral Chuichi Nagumo. A second force that included the older carrier Hosho was detached for an essentially meaningless attack on the Aleutians, in the vain, almost feckless, hope that the American fleet would be lured away from Midway. The Main Body, with the seven battleships, posi- tioned itself to go to the aid of either the Striking Force,