ing the first experiments with balloons and in establishing the first company of Aérostiers, was named to head the school. Coutelle was rewarded with the command of the second company of Aérostiers.  The new unit received two new balloons, the Hercule and the Intrepid, and went into action with General Charles Pichegru’s Army of the Rhine. If Jourdan had been the consummate survivor, Pichegru was the consummate conspirator, whose continual attempts to betray whatever side he was supposed to be serving resulted ultimately in his being strangled in 1804, purportedly on Napoleon’s orders. Nonetheless, balloons were used effectively dur- ing the siege of Mayence (Mainz) and at the Battle of Mannheim.  The year 1796 saw the second company of Aérostiers fully employed by General Jean-Victor Moreau in battles at Rastadt, Stuttgart, and Donauwerth. Moreau, a brilliant commander, was also a conspirator with royalist sympathies who schemed with Pichegru. It is perhaps no accident that the balloon companies did not fare so well under these commanders, who had things other than victory on their minds.  Part of the problem was one that would become familiar to all future aviation units, and in later years the term “tooth to tail ratio” would be created to describe it. In the balloon company, the “tooth” was the observer, able on days when wind and weather permitted, to make ascensions and obtain data about the enemy. The “tail” was the impedimenta of the balloon company—its wagons, equipment, and personnel that were perforce idle when the balloon could not be used. To a commander hard pressed for infantry, the sight of an inactive balloon company of men, regardless of the color and cut of their uniform, was galling.  Appendix 399  The original company, now commanded by Lhomond, contin- ued to be used by Jourdan until the Battle of Wurzburg, where Jourdan suffered one of his rare defeats and the first balloon com- pany was captured by the Austrians.  There now occurred one of the