n Germany, and there were more antiaircraft weapons available for defense.  The diminishment of the Luftwaffe’s threat permitted tactical avia- tion to come into its own in the advance across France, as the fighter- bomber became the preferred weapon for the close air support role, for which the Republic P47 was particularly suited. The P-47 was extremely rugged and had a 2,000-horsepower Pratt & Whitney R-2800 engine that could take enormous damage and still run well enough to get the airplane back to its home field. As the war had progressed, cooperation between the armies and the air forces had improved enor- mously, so tactical aircraft became an on-call service for advancing armored units, standing in aerial cab ranks, awaiting targets.  The value of the tactic was proved in such slaughters as the mid- August 1944 Falaise Gap massacre, when fleeing enemy columns, the remnants of some twenty German divisions, were first halted then decimated by wave after wave of fighter-bombers, particularly the very effective British Hawker Typhoon. Forced to abandon their vehicles and guns, only about half the enemy force made it back to its own territory.  Meanwhile, over Germany, the Luftwaffe conserved its strength as best it could, staying on the ground except for raids on the most critical targets, trying to put together enough numbers to make its attacks meaningful. To the Mustangs and Thunderbolts that now roamed German skies with near impunity from aerial opposition, everything was now a target, from the dangerous airfields down to a courier on a bicycle.  The attacks on the airfields were by far the most hazardous, and experienced pilots carefully planned such attacks to maximize sur- prise and minimize the response of the antiaircraft guns. The con- cept was to make one sudden whirlwind attack and leave—if they    True Air Superiority, Then Absolute Air Supremacy, 1944-45 269  came back for a second pass, they were almost certain to be shot down. Even on the “one pa