ngley. In Europe, no minister wished to go to his government and explain that he was buying an American product sight unseen, when it seemed probable that a native product would be developed soon.  The impasse was not resolved until Congressional pressure and common sense intervened, and the Wrights (and forty others!) accepted an invitation to compete for a Signal Corps requirement for an aircraft that would be “capable of carrying two men and suf- ficient fuel supplies for a flight of 125 miles, with a speed of at least 40 miles per hour. It must remain aloft for at least one hour and land without damage.” The request for proposal also stipulated that the flying machine be designed so that an intelligent man could become proficient in its use in a reasonable length of time, and that it be so constructed as to be able to be transported on a standard Army wagon.  In the event, none of the other competitors actually appeared, and Orville had the parade ground at Fort Myer, Virginia, to him- self. The demonstration of the 1908 Wright Military Flyer was a suc- cess up to the point that a crash occurred on September 17, injur- ing Orville severely, and killing First Lieutenant Thomas Selfridge. The first man to die in the crash of a powered aircraft, Selfridge was a member of the team evaluating the aircraft. His presence had irri- tated Orville, for as a founding member of the AEA, he was a rival to the Wrights. Fortunately, Orville had demonstrated the aircraft so well that there was no doubt that the Army wished to buy it, and the terms of the contract were extended so that the Wrights could rebuild the aircraft and demonstrate it the following year.  Industrial competition and espionage began early in the aviation business, and perhaps could be said to have commenced on September 23, when AEA members Bell, McCurdy, and Baldwin came to serve as Selfridge’s pallbearers, and paid a courtesy call on Orville, in the Fort Myer hospital. They were turned away, but then too