bers, followed a few weeks after. By July 31, eighty-five men and six Heinkel He 51 fighters were embarked on the SS Usaramo, also bound for Cadiz, along with bombs, bomb racks, and machine gun ammuni- tion. The operation was given the code name “Operation Magic Fire,” a tip of the Fihrer’s hat to a musical passage in Siegfried.'®  The influence of air power is often debated, but in the Spanish Civil War, it can be fairly stated that air power was strategically essen- tial during the period July-October 1936, when German Junkers Ju 52/3m transports flew critically needed troops from Africa to join Nationalist forces in Spain. In that interval some 13,000 troops and 550,000 pounds of equipment were flown across the narrow Straits of Gibraltar, saving the Nationalist revolution from collapse.” This was the  188 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  first time in history that a complete army had been airlifted into bat- tle, and the scale of the effort was not exceeded until the German inva- sion of Crete in 1941.  The Germans also used the Ju 52 as a bomber. On August 14, two well-placed bombs were supposed to have put the Republican bat- tleship Jaime I out of action for the rest of the war. (Later analysis indicated that the ship was sunk by a mine.)  The main body of German effort would come in November, when the No. 88 Volunteer Corps was formally recognized; it became known as the Kondor Legion. The term “Volunteer Corps” was cam- ouflage, for these were standard German military units being blood- ed for future combat duties. The legion consisted of individual groups of fighters, bombers, reconnaissance, seaplane, and antiair- craft units, along with support personnel. A total of about 6,000 men and 100 aircraft were on hand at any one time, but at least 19,000 men and 350 planes served over the course of the war. Some 298 members of the Kondor Legion were killed, and another 1,000 were wounded by the time the war ended.  Although it took Mussolini longer to m