l aware that the two men were experts on fact- finding missions for their government.  Lindbergh’s visits are especially interesting, because the intelligence benefits they provided to the United States were later overshadowed by  Air Power and Its Influence Between the Wars 173  the public furor over the Lone Eagle’s political naiveté. The American military attaché, Major Truman Smith, obtained an invitation for Colonel and Mrs. Lindbergh, who were received with open arms on July 22, 1936. During their eleven-day stay they met with Goering, Milch, Udet, and others. Lindbergh visited the Heinkel and Junkers aircraft factories, which impressed him not only with their current work, but their apparent suitability for vastly increasing their rates of production. He visited a first-line fighter unit, flew two German planes, and made a hands-on inspection of many others.  Lindbergh made careful reports on what he saw, and accurate- ly depicted the comparative level of German design and manu- facture compared to that of the United States. Unfortunately, he was not as astute in assessing the German leaders, considering Goering to be a unique combination of diplomacy and force, and Hitler to be “undoubtedly a great man” who had done much for the German people.’  Lindbergh made a second trip in October 1937, and this time vis- ited the Focke Wulf and Henschel factories, Rechlin, the test facility, and the Daimler-Benz factory, where he correctly noted that German engine development was not yet up to American or British standards.  The Lindberghs returned to Germany in October 1938 for a nine- teen-day trip in which all propaganda stops were pulled out. Lindbergh was allowed to inspect the top-secret Junkers Ju 88 and to fly the Messerschmitt Bf 109 fighter. Both airplanes impressed him greatly.  Permitting Lindbergh to fly the 109 was an extraordinary gesture at a time when first-line fighters were veiled in secrecy in all countries. In addition, flying a foreign high-perform