used it to settle old scores, retain its colonial empire, expand its territories, and in general become an interna- tional bully. The United States did none of these things. In fact, it did something very different: it virtually discarded ultimate air power in a headlong return to a peace that also promised pros- perity. It should not have done so, for there were early signs that  286 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  all might not be well in the future relations of the Western Allies and the Soviet Union.  These signs were the first steps toward the Cold War that would dominate the political scene for most of the remainder of the twenti- eth century, and in which air power would play a dual role as the ultimate strategic and indispensable tactical weapon.  The maturing of air power into its ultimate form in August 1945 meant that all of the theories of air power in the past had to be reviewed for their contemporary relevance and that new theories of air power had to be established. Many new ideas were put forward over the next fifty years, but few would be put into practice because the political and military rivalry of the Soviet Union and the United States dominated the real world of air power. Not until 1991 would an emerging new theory of air power be both defined and demonstrated.  Hidden in the results of a series of conferences held by the “Big Three,” consisting then of President Roosevelt, Prime Minister Churchill, and Premier Stalin, were the first steps to the Cold War. The three wartime leaders met at Tehran in November 1943 and at Yalta in February 1945. The Big Three met again at Potsdam in August 1945, but two of the members had changed. Truman had succeeded Roosevelt, who had died on April 12 of that year, and—in the midst of the conference—Labor Party leader Clement Attlee replaced the old warhorse Churchill as a result of a fit of post-war British ingratitude.  In all of the negotiations that took place at the three conferences, Stalin posse