nd Army units. Ultimately, however, the great- est expression of air power to date would be found in the employment of the Boeing B-29. Within months, the ultimate in air power would be found in the combination of that airplane and nuclear weapons.  Air Power in the Pacific  Control of American forces in the Pacific theater of war was divid- ed between two towering personalities, the colorful, flamboyant General Douglas MacArthur and the quiet, reserved Admiral Chester Nimitz. To preserve their respective egos and to insure the least amount of friction, the Pacific theater was divided into the Southwest Pacific Area under MacArthur and the Pacific Ocean Area under Nimitz. MacArthur was to move in an arc from Guadalcanal up through New Guinea to the Philippines. Nimitz was to take a central route, through the Gilbert, Marshall, and Mariana island groups. Fortunately both men were convinced of the value of air power, and both were content to let their experts wield it.  The first hint of the scale in which American air power would be applied in the Pacific was seen in the first six months of 1943, when nine new aircraft carriers joined the Pacific Fleet. They were mere har- bingers of what was to come in United States naval air power, for by 1945, there were no less than fourteen large fleet carriers and sixty-five light aircraft carriers in operation against the Japanese homeland. By then, Japan lacked pilots who could take off and land from the four carriers (two large and two small) that remained afloat.  As the American carrier forces became a true strategic force in 1944-45, they grew bolder in tactics, doing routinely what experts had previously deemed impossible, taking on and defeating land- based air power. The Japanese had so heavily fortified Truk, the so- called Gibraltar of the Pacific, that an invasion would have been very difficult. On February 17, 1944, Vice Admiral Marc A. Mitscher’s powerful Task Force 58 (TF 58) attacked with its fifteen carriers an