n the vain, almost feckless, hope that the American fleet would be lured away from Midway. The Main Body, with the seven battleships, posi- tioned itself to go to the aid of either the Striking Force, or the Aleutian task force. The two other forces included a screening force of sixteen submarines that did not arrive in time to affect the battle, and the Military Occupation Force, twelve troop transports carrying the five thousand officers and men intended to take and hold Midway. While Yamamoto divided his large fleet, Admiral Chester Nimitz concentrated his much smaller force. Knowing the Japanese intent from intercepted radio messages, Nimitz placed his carrier strike force, consisting of Task Force 17 with the Yorktown (only partially recovered from the battering it had taken in the Battle of the Coral Sea but ready to launch aircraft) and Task Force 16 with the Enterprise and Hornet, in a position to strike Yamamoto’s carriers. He gave the task force commanders, Rear Admirals Frank Jack Fletcher and Raymond A. Spruance, the following extremely rigorous instructions: “You will be governed by the principle of calculated risk, which you will interpret to mean the avoidance of exposure of your force to attack by superior enemy forces without good prospect of inflict- ing, as a result of such exposure, greater damage on the enemy.”* It was a close-run thing. The Japanese made a ferocious attack on Midway, confident that there were no enemy carriers within striking distance. Land-based American aircraft, including lumbering Consolidated PBYs used as torpedo planes, attacked the Japanese fleet, slowing it for critical moments. Then the final curtain dropped when the Enterprise and Hornet launched sixty-eight Douglas SBD Dauntless dive-bombers, twenty-nine Douglas TBD torpedo planes, and twenty Grumman F4F fighters, followed by the Yorktown launching seventeen SBDs, twelve TBDs, and six F4Fs just thirty minutes later. The outcome of the battle had turned on intelligenc