injured.  Despite a United States naval court of inquiry that concluded that the attack was deliberate, Japan insisted that it was an accident, and offered an apology and an indemnity of $2,214,007.36, which was ulti- mately accepted. The Panay was the first United States Navy ship to be sunk by air action." (There is an intriguing rumor that the reason the Japanese attacked—and the reason the Americans accepted the apol- ogy—was that the Panay was carrying salvaged pieces of a Japanese air- craft. The author cannot provide a source for the rumor, with its Lusitanialike connotations, but it would be interesting if it were so.)  Still, the sincerity of the Japanese might be called into question, given that in January 1942 a medal was awarded to Colonel Kingoro Hashimoto for his part in planning the attack. This action might be interpreted that the attack on the Panay was made with official gov- ernment sanction and not by the private initiative of a hotheaded Japanese officer. Unfortunately for the Japanese people, Tokyo drew the conclusion that the United States was not willing to defend itself.  Japanese success in the air war over China came in part because of a series of indigenous designs that included bombers of very long-range and good load-carrying capacity, and fighters possessed of a high-speed and superb maneuverability. The quality of these modern aircraft was epitomized by the Mitsubishi firm, which built the G3M and G4M bombers and the A5M and A6M (Zero) fighters. The Western world, particularly the United States and Great Britain, discounted Japan’s ability to build such excellent aircraft, which, for the Japanese mission, were fully up to world standards.    182 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Unfortunately for the Japanese, they did not adopt modern mass production techniques, so that many of their aircraft were built on a “file to fit” basis. The result was that parts from one Zero (for example) would not fit another. Consequently, many air