er side would attempt to counter; this competition led to a rapid improvement in the quality not only of fighter aircraft, but of all aircraft, as the natural engineering spin- offs accrued. The gradual introduction of fighters, and the ensuing fighter-versus-fighter combat, saw a rapid increase in attrition among pilots, already great because of accidents.  There was a curious reverse Darwinism that has persisted down through the present time. The very best pilots are usually selected to fly fighters, and this is the job they usually want. Unfortunately, fighter pilots are the first killed off in a conflict, so that the best pilots are often dead before they have a chance to prove themselves. There is another curious, very human factor at work in this equa- tion. The best pilots want to be, and are assigned to be, fighter pilots. Yet only 1 percent of all the fighter pilots ever trained entered com- bat, and of those few who did, only 5 percent ever became aces, a title given those who shot down five enemy aircraft. Thus of all the  76 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  thousands of pilots selected to be fighter pilots over time, only .0005 (five ten-thousandths of a percent) became aces.' The aces, because they were among the few who actually engaged in combat, suffered by far the greater percentage of casualties. This makes the ace a true elite—but a product of a vast misallocation of resources.  During World War I, the goal of both sets of combatants was to establish air superiority over a limited sector of the front so that obser- vation and bombing planes could accomplish their missions. By World War II, the goal became to establish air superiority in specific fronts or theaters. Implicit in this goal was the hope eventually to acquire com- mand of the air so that enemy air forces were not allowed to operate anywhere at any time, while friendly air forces were permitted to carry out their missions with little interference. In more recent conflicts, the s