ude for the return trip. He had exaggerated his ability to build hydrogen-generating equipment, so that at the crucial moment, he was unable to deliver the services he had promised.  Simultaneously, La Mountain found that his archrival, Thaddeus S. C. Lowe, was proving to be more adept politically. While La Mountain was on active service, conducting reconnaissance for Butler’s forces, Lowe had maneuvered himself into a position of army aeronaut, with the assignment to operate balloons for the Army of the Potomac. There is no little irony in the fact that Lowe rose to political favor in Washington during the same period that both La Mountain and Wise were struggling against all odds to serve the Union cause in the air.  Lowe had become a balloonist in 1854, at the age of twenty-two, and, like Wise and La Mountain, had wished to create a balloon    408 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  that would cross the Atlantic. He built a balloon, the City of New York (later the Great Western) of huge proportions. It was some 130 feet in diameter, with a gas capacity of 725,000 cubic feet and a lifting capacity of 45,000 pounds, but he never succeeded in getting it ready for the transatlantic attempt.  Yet his methods were deemed scientific, and he received the full support of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Joseph Henry. This would prove to be an invaluable relationship, one that would link him to President Abraham Lincoln and be a pathway to control of ballooning in the Union Army.  Like Wise, Lowe had demonstrated his airmanship with a long- distance flight, using a smaller balloon, the Enterprise, a popular name selected for use by ships of the line, balloons, aircraft carriers, a Space Shuttle, and television science fiction spaceships. On the morning of April 20, 1861, Lowe lifted off from Cincinnati, and landed nine hours later at the inappropriately named Unionville, South Carolina. There the locals were undecided whether he was a devil or a Yankee sp