ion of air power all through history, from balloons to the remark- able use of air power in the very first days of World War I.  The Influence of Air Power upon History    Chapter One  Fledgling Wings  The world which rocked with excitement at the invention of the balloon in 1783 would find the nineteenth and twentieth centuries filled with far more sophisticated lighter-than-air (LTA) and heay- ier-than-air (HTA) craft vehicles, each one successively more capa- ble.  The latter would soon prove to have far more military potential than balloons (of which a concise history can be found in the appendix) or airships, but would face similar problems in develop- ment and in gaining acceptance by military leaders. Progress in aeroplanes, as they were known in the early days of heavier-than-air flight, was far more rapid than that of LTA types, thanks to their inherent greater utility. Aircraft, as they became known, revolution- ized warfare, although the fact was not fully accepted at first. The first instances in which air power had influence on history were direct and decisive military intervention on the battlefield. The sec- ond, less obvious effect was that aviation revolutionized industry with its demand for precision production and with the continual introduction of new and complex systems to make aircraft more effective. This industrial revolution would have profound effects upon the world’s economy by increasing productivity even as it increased quality of manufacture.  The aircraft revolution from the beginning carried the seed of a problem that was not recognized for decades, and that was the heavy support the employment of aircraft required, both in the mil- itary and in industry. No previous weapon, not even the dread- noughts that precipitated the naval shipbuilding race before World War I, had required such a large ratio of support to combatant per- sonnel, nor such a huge industry to support it.    22 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Continued Ligh