way to Vienna to drop his leaflets, which he signed “Gabriele D’Annunzio, in the sky of Vienna.” While the physical damage to the enemy of D’Annunzio’s attacks was minimal, he had a tonic effect upon Italian morale, and he became an influential supporter of Douhet. And it should be noted to his credit that he also flew unromantic but vital reconnaissance missions over the Adriatic.  The most fateful effect of this Italian renaissance in aviation was upon Benito Mussolini, who assumed power in Italy in 1922. Mussolini, envisioning Italy as a gigantic aircraft carrier dominating the Mediterranean, embraced both Douhet’s theories and D’Annunzio’s romantic call for Italian glory in the sky. Mussolini greatly expanded the Regia Aeronautica, and learned to fly himself so that he could be seen as an avant garde dictator, at the controls of modern Italian aircraft as he was at the control of Italy. His son Bruno became a military pilot, fought in Ethiopia and in the Spanish Civil War, and was killed in 1941 flying one of Italy’s four- engine bombers, the Piaggio P.108. Unfortunately for Italy and the world, Mussolini’s unfounded belief in the myth of Italian air power helped persuade him to embark on military adventures that includ- ed the easy conquest of Ethiopia and disaster in Greece and North Africa. Italy was never able to implement Douhet’s ideas, but con- trary to anecdotal history, its air crews were skilled and brave, and its torpedo pilots were among the best in the world.  Russia  Although, as has been noted, Russia entered the 1914-18 war with a significant number of aircraft and airships, its real problem was its industrial infrastructure, which could not design, build, or main- tain warplanes of adequate quality. The aircraft it bought from the Allies were usually obsolete and often well worn. The most signifi- cant contribution was the Sikorsky four-engine bomber, of which ninety-three were produced during the war. The big Sikorskys flew four hundred sorties