t was inevitable in attacks on bomber for- mations that there would be multiple claims for every aircraft shot down, more for probables, and even more for wishful thinking. Actual German losses were relatively light, although the Luftwaffe did react by bringing in more fighters from the Eastern Front.  Daytime Air Superiority Won—by the Luftwaffe  The pressure on the Eighth Air Force became overwhelming despite its grudging participation in out-of-theater missions such as the August 1, 1943, raid on the Ploesti oil fields, when 54 out of 177 attacking planes were lost.  A decision was made to send the bombers on long missions to Regensburg and Schweinfurt in the full knowledge that fighter escort would be available only for the initial legs into German-occu- pied Europe, and the final legs out. This was the championship title bout, the chance to prove the theory that the bomber advocates had advanced. Unfortunately, the Luftwaffe was attempting to prove some theories of its own, including the importance of concentrat- ing fighters en masse, flying line-abreast head-on attacks, and mak- ing as many sorties as possible by landing at the nearest flying field for refueling and rearming rather than returning to home base.  LeMay, newly promoted to brigadier general, led the 4th Bombardment Wing to attack Regensburg with 146 aircraft. The plan called for 230 planes of the 1st Bombardment Wing, under  244 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Brigadier General Robert B. Williams, to take off ten minutes after the last of LeMay’s planes had departed, and attack the vital ball bearing plants in Schweinfurt. The idea was that the 4th Bomb Wing would draw in most of the Nazi fighters, which would have to land to refuel and rearm and thus miss the opportunity to strike the 1st Bomb Wing.  Weather intervened, and the Ist Bomb Wing took off three and a half hours late, which meant that the Luftwaffe had plenty of time to attend to both incursions. German fighters attacked cont