ed comments emphasized strategic bom- bardment in mass formations. He then switched to tactical bomb- ing, with the concept of first obtaining air supremacy so that the Army could subsequently be given support in its offensive opera- tions. Later he began to emphasize strategic operations again, and influenced by Gorrell’s detailed planning, was firmly convinced that had the war lasted into 1919, it would have been decided by a strate- gic air assault on Germany’s heartland.  Most American Army officers were rapidly promoted during the war, and demoted just as rapidly when peace came in November 1918. By a mixture of chance and his undeniable charisma, Mitchell retained his rank. However, what some saw as charisma, others saw as insubordination, and Mitchell was denied his real goal, to be Chief of the Air Service. That position went to Major General Charles Menoher, who never learned the knack of managing Mitchell, who became Third Assistant Executive and Chief, Training and Operations Group. The latter position gave him effective control over Air Service operations, and enabled him to generate sufficient tur- bulence to discommode both his Army superiors and his Navy rivals.  Mitchell was, in truth, a difficult subordinate, but he knew how to play to the press and to the Congress, and, conscious of the support of his family, he was willing to place his job on the line more readi- ly than others were able to do. It was not by chance that Mitchell was sent on long “inspection trips” abroad, to Europe and to the Pacific, for they kept him out of Washington—and out of the Army’s hair. The trips were fruitful, however, for Mitchell returned from the European tour with a host of ideas on aircraft construction and pro- curement, and from the Pacific tour with a clear presentiment that Japan was the future enemy.  Mitchell knew that he could never prevail over the top leadership in either the Army or the Navy, so he laid out a path that led him to his greatest heights—and