ction of munitions. Notwithstanding this viewpoint, Harris took the trouble to have his deputy, Air Vice Marshall Sir Richard Saundby, check to make sure that Dresden should be on the target list.”  The top-level decision to bomb Dresden also had the unstated requirement to demonstrate to the Soviet Union both the Allied desire to help—and the Allied ability to inflict punishment by bombing. The bombing of Dresden, then, was like any bombing raid from the first feeble leaflet drops to the atomic bomb on Nagasaki: a terrible waste. It would have been better if none of them had ever taken place—but there happened to be a war on.  The Quest for Air Superiority: Operation Argument  Air power and its influence have always turned on the capability of individuals. Yet the daytime air war over Germany saw an extremely    260 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  capable individual, Ira Eaker, unable to establish air superiority solely because he was attempting to do it with the wrong tools. Eaker was fulfilling the Air Corps Tactical School doctrine of bomber invincibility, using his limited resources to the maximum. Unfortunately, air superiority and the free exercise of air power were not to be achieved until bitter bloody experience at last called forth the long-range fighters that would do the job. The pervasive and insidious influence of the ACTS doctrine of bomber suprema- cy can be inferred from the fact that no urgent requests were made for two groups of the aircraft most suitable for the task, Lockheed P-38s that were available in the United States. (Other P-38 groups had been sent to fight in North Africa.)  When the Eighth Air Force began operation, it was originally commanded by Major General Carl A. (“Tooey”) Spaatz and con- sisted of the VIII Bomber Command under Brigadier General Eaker (who had flown with Spaatz on the famed 1929 endurance flight of the Question Mark), and VIII Fighter Command, under World War I ace Brigadier General Frank O’Driscoll (“Mon