ry foot of land at a terrible cost in lives.  The United States Navy’s success exposed for the second time the curious contradiction in the study of the influence of air power on history. Air power, no matter how brutally applied, once again appeared unable to convince defeated leaders to surrender. In Japan, as in Nazi Germany, as long as the leaders could be safely ensconced in bombproof bunkers, they went into apparent denial about losing the war, clinging to chimerical belief in Kamikaze sac- rifice. Rather than admit defeat, they much preferred to expose their military and civilian populace to endless casualties just to pro- long their existence and their power a few months longer.  Army Air Forces Operations  Under the command of one of the great fighting airmen of World War II, Lieutenant General George Churchill Kenney, the Fifth Air Force had grown from a ragtag collection of cast-off air- craft into a formidable force that hammered out a path for General Douglas MacArthur’s armies in the Southwest Pacific. Kenney proved once again the pivotal importance of personality in the exer- cise of air power. He had the gift for getting along not only with MacArthur, but also with MacArthur’s even more difficult Chief of Staff, Major General Richard K. Sutherland. With MacArthur, Kenney did it with charm, logic, and performance; with Sutherland, he did it with a quick exposure of a titanium hand in a silken glove. But Kenney’s talents for getting the best out of people did not extend upward only; he extracted the utmost from the people who worked for him, for he had the capacity to listen. He had some superb co-workers, including Kenneth Walker, who had helped pre- pare AWPD/1, and the tough, often irascible, Brigadier General Ennis C. Whitehead. He also had a protégé, Major Paul I. (“Pappy”) Gunn, who was a master of unorthodox field modifications, a talent sorely needed in the early days of the war.    274 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Under Kenney, the