und forces. Avoiding “Shock and Awe” was not only sound but brilliant, for it allowed the full employment of effects-based-operations, while at the same time at least attempting to assuage Arab hatred of the United States for its    374 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  invasion of an Arab country.'  General Franks' decision to strike with the relatively small number of forces in the theater prior to a heavy air attack was both brave and correct. Given that everyone was expecting “Shock and Awe”, launching the ground war first was the best way to obtain surprise. The surprise was sustained throughout the ground operations, as the Third Army moved swiftly toward Baghdad in a process that approximated John Boyd's theory of the OODA (Observe, Orient, Decide, Act) loop.’  As events developed, the attack “went right” because of an imaginative and audacious strategy and plan, air and space dominance, overwhelming C'ISR capabilities, tactical surprise, speed, the high quality of coalition troops including their equipment and training, the manner in which U.S. and coalition assets were used and the inferior troops, leadership and planning of the Iraqis.  The surprising success of the weapon systems fielded in Operation Iraqi Freedom came despite a long period of time when defense spending as a percentage of gross domestic product declined steadily, from 5.4 percent in 1992 to 3.0 percent in 2001. (In 2002, it crept back up to 3.4 percent.) During the same period, the military increased its activities in military operations, humanitarian and compassionate relief missions, homeland defense, and other requirements on the order of 300%. As always, the increase was taken “out of the hide” of service personnel by increasing the tempo of operations to an unprecedented degree both in intensity and duration.  When defense spending declines at a time when military operations expand so dramatically, military leaders are forced to continuously trade-off considerations on force s