e bugs” that infested Hammondsport and its vineyards that year.) His aircraft still echoed the Wright formula but was powered by an engine of his own design, directly driving the pusher propeller. It also was equipped with a wheeled tricycle undercarriage, and wing-tip ailerons. In it, Curtiss would win the prestigious Scientific American Trophy on July 4, generating tremendous publicity and serving notice to the Wrights that they had a formidable competitor. The AEA, making free use of the knowledge gained from observing the Wright efforts, had caught up, not in ten years but in less than one.  Curtiss traded on his success by offering aircraft for sale com- mercially. The Wrights responded with the first of many lawsuits, a process of litigation that would drain them of creative effort.  The two brothers from Dayton had always hoped to sell their air- craft to the United States government, naively hoping that as a weapon it would make war impossible because there could no longer be surprises on the battlefield. However, when the U.S. gov- ernment persisted in refusing to buy, they were forced to attempt to sell it to a foreign government.  Several factors worked against such a sale. The first was the uncompromising standards of the Wrights, who for reasons of secrecy, would not agree to show, much less demonstrate, their aircraft prior    34 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  to having a signed contract in hand. They did not demand any money prior to such a demonstration, but they expected potential buyers, including such notoriously difficult clients as the British and French armies, to sign a contract for purchase, sight unseen. In the United States, the War Department was still smarting over the bad publicity it had received for the $50,000 it had advanced Langley. In Europe, no minister wished to go to his government and explain that he was buying an American product sight unseen, when it seemed probable that a native product would be developed soon.  Th