ward with a force of 490 pounds. Two men sufficed to raise it and fill it with gas, but it took eight to hold it down until the signal was given. The different pieces of covering were held together with buttons and buttonholes.”' (The great pio- neer used the term “gas” here because he considered it to be a phys- ical substance similar in effect, if not in substance, to hydrogen. It had not yet occurred to the Montgolfiers that their balloons rose because heated air is less dense, and therefore lighter.)  The first publicly demonstrated balloon rose steadily from the ground to more than a mile in height, floated there with unbeliev- able grace, and then sank gently to the ground. In a little over ten minutes and perhaps a mile and one-half in distance, the Montgolfiers and their balloon had unleashed a revolution that is still in progress.  And yet all of the elements that constituted this success had been available for hundreds of years. There are reports that indicate that primitive balloons might have been made in China. The Egyptians and even the Incas had the material with which to make a balloon, and the combustible material with which to furnish the necessary heat. Civilizations such as these, which built great structures and had an understanding of astronomy, certainly would have been able to create a balloon—but apparently did not pursue that goal. Other experimenters, including Bartolemeu de Gusmao, created small toy-sized hot-air balloons in the early eighteenth century. What the Montgolfier brothers provided was the insight, persistence, and  Appendix 387  wherewithal (for balloons have never been inexpensive) to create a method of harnessing the simple physical forces that would lift the balloon and a cargo into the air.  Interest in ballooning spread rapidly, and unlike the invention of the aircraft some 120 years later, there was an air of joyous and cooperative bonhomie among the celebrants of the new discipline. Henry Cavendish had discovered both t