the industrial relations that Caproni had established in America. He was read by German officers, upon whom he also had an effect. Apparently he was not influential with the Royal Air Force or in the Soviet Union.  Like Trenchard, Douhet altered his opinions over time, but he was largely consistent with his earliest writings, adding to them as he gained a greater appreciation of technology, then sticking to them defiantly when criticism began to mount. In the most condensed form, it might be said that Douhet’s philosophy consisted of the fol- lowing:  1. Command of the air must be won.  2. Command of the air should be won not by confronting the enemy’s air forces, but by destroying his means of resistance with bombing attacks. Air battles were to be avoided if possible.  3. Future wars, as with the 1914-18 war, were to be national con- tests, fought between the peoples of the nations involved.  4. The aircraft had succeeded old forms of weaponry; the next war would be fought and won in the air.  5. It was impossible to defend against a bombing attack, and therefore pointless to spend money on defensive weapons such as fighters and antiaircraft guns. Nor was it worthwhile to spend money on “auxiliary aviation” such as front-line reconnaissance, artillery spotting, and transport. Long-range reconnaissance to assess damage by the bombers was acceptable.  6. Five basic target systems—communications, government, indus- try, transportation, and (the most nebulous of all) the will of the peo- ple were to be assaulted in an initial and overwhelming attack.  7. Chemical weapons—such as poison gas—were essential to bring about the catastrophic attack that would break the enemy population’s will so that it would force the enemy government to surrender.  8. The ideal airplane would be a multi-purpose “battle-plane” able to make long-distance bombing raids carrying a great weight of explosives, and able to defend itself against any enemy fighters that might attack.  In retrospec