01  amount of research work. Unknown at the time, however, was the fact that the responsibility would cause significant problems within the USAF when missiles became a larger element of the force struc- ture. These problems are covered at length in Carl H. Builder’s The Icarus Syndrome, in which the author postulates that senior Air Force leaders, almost every one a veteran pilot, resented the “intrusion” of the missile upon the mission of the piloted aircraft. Builder goes so far as to state that the leaders only grudgingly accepted missiles and satellites as a means to air-power ends, but also that their true affec- tion was not for air power—but for airplanes.’  Fortunately, there was within the ranks of the USAF a brilliant avi- ator, then-Brigadier General Bernard A. Schriever, who loved air- planes but saw the ICBM as a means not only to aerospace power superiority, but as the key to the exploration of space.  Made aware of the immense Soviet effort in ICBM development, but unable to obtain exact information on its status, President Dwight D. Eisenhower gave top priority to the development of the ICBM by the USAF. Schriever was appointed Commander of the Western Development Division (WDD) and allowed to handpick his staff.  He immediately enlisted the assistance of the academic, scientif- ic, and industrial communities, and established an organization that ultimately dwarfed the atomic bomb project in funding and number of employees. Further, the ICBM, although an even more difficult scientific challenge than the atomic bomb had been, was far more urgently needed. The United States, at however great a cost, would ultimately have defeated Japan even if the atomic bomb project had failed. There was every reason to believe that the Soviet Union was far advanced in rocketry and pulling equal in both atom- ic and hydrogen bombs. If the Soviet Union was the first to field a fleet of ICBMs, it would have the United States at its mercy—and mercy was not a commodity fo