was killed in an aircraft accident on June 3, 1936, when, in his usual tearing hurry, he skipped the aircraft preflight and took off in a relatively hot Heinkel He 70 Blitz with the aileron controls locked. With his death, the impetus behind the four-engine bomber program was lost.  Kesselring succeeded Wever, and on the whole did his usual excellent job. His biggest mistake was recommending that develop- ment of the four-engine bomber be canceled on the grounds that it required too many resources and would use too much fuel on oper- ations. Goering issued the cancellation on April 29, 1937. As has been noted many times, Goering was glad to acquiesce, for many more twin-engine bombers could be built than four-engine bombers, and, as he noted, the Fihrer “asked him how many bombers he had, not what kind.”  The still young Luftwaffe was going through a period of organi- zational confusion. Goering’s personality would not tolerate Milch’s increased prestige and responsibility as he orchestrated the swift expansion. As a result Goering insisted on a number of personnel changes to place in positions of power people he believed would be loyal to him, personally. The most disastrous of these was the appointment of the highest-scoring surviving German World War I  Growth of Air-Power Theory 159  ace, Ernst Udet, as head of the Technical Office, and soon there- after, head of the Office of Supply and Procurement.  Udet had a checkered postwar career as stunt pilot, filmmaker, aircraft manufacturer, and hard-drinking bon vivant. He was consti- tutionally unsuitable for his new responsibilities, and he knew it. While he had the expert pilot’s intuitive understanding of aircraft, he had no scientific or technical bent. Further, he had absolutely no understanding of how to manage a bureaucratic organization, and no wish to learn. In short order, he had more than twenty depart- ment heads reporting directly to him, personally, with no interme- diate layer of management to make de