ptly engaged the enemy.  The first aircraft of British design to be deployed to France was the Royal Aircraft Factory’s B.E.8. (The use of “B.E.” as a designa- tion was an anomaly that went back to the early days of the Royal Aircraft Factory, when an aircraft designed by Geoffrey de Havilland was designated Blériot Experimental No. 1 [B.E.1] in honor of Louis Blériot. The designation was continued through the B.E.12). Called the Bloater by the RFC, B.E.8 was a rather large two-seat biplane, weighing about two thousand pounds, and capable of a sev- enty-mile-per-hour speed. It could carry up to a hundred pounds of bombs and was used on several early bombing raids. All of the early aircraft were difficult to fly, but the B.E.8 was described as “a nasty contraption” by one of its pilots."*  The final type which made the first great journey to France, the  Air Power in World War I 57  Avro Type E, was similar in most respects to the B.E.8, but had the great honor of being the ancestor of one of the greatest training planes of all time, the Avro 504. The Type E had a maximum speed of only sixty miles per hour and was never employed operationally.  These were hardly formidable machines, and it was fortunate indeed that the enemy aircraft of the period were of about the same size, shape, and capability. Besides not having a sparkling perfor- mance, all of these machines were temperamental, difficult to fly, and ill suited for a campaign in the field. It is thus all the more remark- able that the men who flew them were able to achieve so much.  As happened in most of its wars, the British Army began World War I with a long, arduous retreat. The British Expeditionary Force (BEF) consisted of four infantry divisions and one cavalry division. It was positioned near Mons on the left of the seventy-two French divisions that waited for the German onslaught, which had been delayed by the unexpectedly stiff resistance of the Belgian Army— the next part of the Schlieffen plan to go