craft, and the Rivet Joint Boeing RC-135 real-time intelli- gence-gathering aircraft. This integration has gone beyond airborne platforms, however, and can now be found in the individual radar and fire-control systems of fighter, tanker, and transport aircraft. And the philosophy has been taken a step further so that satellite- based commands can now guide individual rounds of precision munitions. There will soon be an airborne laser weapon introduced, capable of stopping a ballistic missile as it ascends from its launch pad.  Yet while space warfare has already influenced the outcome of wars, and is increasingly influential in the development of weapons, it is too early to determine its effect upon history. It remains to be seen if human political genius will be the equal of human technical genius in its use in the future, and thus make air power as space power a continuing positive influence on history.    Appendix  The Earliest Expressions of Air Power  There are three compelling reasons to study the use of the balloon as an instrument of air power. The first is that, in both Europe and the United States, the use of balloons as a military instrument creat- ed conditions of achievement and of failure that were to be repeated all through the history of air power, and consequently it affected air power’s influence on history. The second is that perhaps 50 to 60 per- cent of the problems encountered during the twentieth century in the exercise of air power were encountered in the military use of the balloon more than a hundred years earlier. Most of these problems were solved at the time by the balloon operators. But because there were long interruptions in the use of balloons, there was no corpo- rate memory of either the problems or the solutions, and the same situations were encountered often over time. The third is that vitally important individual personalities were involved in both the creation of problems and their solutions, a situation which would be found a