a direct result of this air superiority, the remainder of the UN air forces could interdict Chinese Communist supplies and furnish close air support, thus equalizing the great difference in the number of troops.  Yet the contest of the future, the struggle that would redefine air power over the next four decades, was not over the Yalu—it was in the home territories of the United States and the Soviet Union. As impor- tant as the outcome of the air battles over Korea were—and they would largely determine the outcome of the battle for Korea itself—it paled into insignificance compared to a potential nuclear battle between the homelands of the United States and the Soviet Union.  The possession of ultimate air power was now a conundrum. While the United States did possess ultimate air power as defined over Hiroshima and Nagasaki, it did not choose to use it. The United States had long-range aircraft capable of penetrating the defenses of both the Soviet Union and Red China with nuclear weapons, but was inhibited from doing so for many reasons. One was a sense of national morality—atomic weapons could not be used lightly. Another more pragmatic reason was that the number of nuclear weapons at its disposal was still limited, as were the carriers, and both of the potential enemies were vast in area and population. If war was thrust upon it, and if nuclear weapons were used suc- cessfully, the United States still did not have an army that could fol- low up the bombings with an invasion and occupation.  As a result, the Korean War was fought with conventional means. The results were effective, particularly when, in 1953, attacks were extended to the dams that were essential both to the hydroelectric system and to agriculture. A different set of circumstances began to prevail when President Dwight D. Eisenhower replaced Truman in 1953. Eisenhower did not believe that the Soviet Union was in any  296 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  condition to take part in another w