trumped-up border incident gave the Italians an excuse to invade Ethiopia on October 3, 1935. The citizens of France and England reacted in horror and disgust to the mismatch of a powerful European nation fighting Ethiopia, which, under Emperor Haile Selassie, was just beginning to emerge from its primitive past. However, the governments of the democratic nations took little or no action, for they hoped to secure Italian sup- port against Hitler. In time, they merely registered disapproval through the League of Nations by ordering some minor sanctions against Italy. These were not carried out effectively, and in fact enabled Mussolini to proclaim to his people that he was bravely defying France and England in Italy’s interest.  The situation was a joy for Hitler, who had kept Germany neutral throughout the war. The German leader stood to gain no matter what the outcome. If Mussolini became greatly involved in Africa, any objections Italy might make to German unification with Austria would be muted. On the other hand, if Mussolini won a decisive  186 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  victory, the opposition of France and Great Britain might force him into an alliance with Germany.  The Italians attacked with overwhelming force, marshaling some 100,000 troops against an ill-trained enemy whose air force consisted of a few non-combat-worthy planes. The Ethiopians, under the inspi- rational leadership of Haile Selassie, often fought well, and their guerilla tactics inflicted continuing losses upon the Italian forces.  In many ways the Italo-Ethiopian war was similar to the war of the United States against the al-Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan. The Italians were fighting hundreds of miles from home in a harsh environ- ment against tribal chiefs who knew their territory intimately. The Italian leaders were astute enough to capitalize effectively upon the differences among the tribes, which in Marshal Emilio de Bono’s estimate kept an additional 200,000 warrio