es in action; search all round within 300 yards of your last shot and you have them.  4:42 p.m. Iam coming home now.”  Within six months, the RFC had evolved a new system. It placed the target in the center of an imaginary clock face, with true north at twelve o’clock. A ring of imaginary concentric circles was drawn around the target at intervals of 10, 25, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, and 500 yards, the circles being lettered Y, Z, A, B, C, D, E, and F, respec- tively. The pilot conducting the operation would note where incom- ing shells burst according to the clock and ring position, as in “C3” (i.e., 200 yards from the target and directly east from it). The French continued to use a much simpler system, recording “over,” “under,” “right,” and “left,” with the estimate of the distances involved.*  The Germans depended upon their superiority in artillery to enable them to maintain a defensive line on the Western Front with relatively few troops. This had been forced upon them by their  66 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  inability to defeat Russia in the East, and exacerbated by the almost continual requirement to reinforce the Austro-Hungarian forces. Artillery spotting was therefore extremely important to them, and they developed a sophisticated grid system that systematically broke the target area into smaller and smaller squares that permitted tar- get areas to be identified down to the nearest thirty meters.  This brief snapshot of early artillery spotting is important because it contains the nucleus of what became the most important aspect of air activity during World War I, directing artillery fire. The essence of the technique is simple: The observer sees the target, he sees the shells fall, and he “walks” the shells to the target.  The Battle of the Aisne that began on September 13, 1914, was followed by the “race to the sea” in which trenches were construct- ed on both sides all the way from Switzerland to the coast. During this period, and for severa