ngly few aircraft on each side, and without the ability on either side to secure air superiority. Intending to invade Port Moresby on the south coast of New Guinea, the Japanese introduced about 150 land-based aircraft, and their strik- ing force included the big carriers Shokaku and Zuikaku, along with two heavy cruisers and six destroyers. Unknown to them, the Americans interposed Task Force 17 with the Yorktown, three cruisers, and four destroyers, and Task Force 11, with the Lexington, three cruisers, and two destroyers. Each side had additional auxiliary craft in support.    228 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  The Japanese possessed the superior fighter plane, for its Mitsubishi Zero was the best carrier-based fighter plane in the world at the time. The U.S. Navy’s Grumman F4F Wildcats were rugged, and when fought in pairs, could hold their own with the Zeros. The dive-bombers were evenly matched, with the Japanese Aichi D3A Val being slightly less modern than the Douglas SBD Dauntless, but pos- sessing an essentially equal capability. The Japanese torpedo plane, the Nakajima N5N Jill, was demonstrably superior to the elderly American Douglas TBD Devastator.  When the battle was over, the Japanese had scored an apparent tac- tical victory, for they sank the grand old carrier Lexington, and severely damaged the Yorktown, while only losing the much smaller carrier Shoho. Two large, thirty-knot aircraft carriers, the Shokaku and the Zuikaku, were so badly damaged that they would not be ready for the next big battle. Thanks to Herculean effort on the part of repair crews, the Yorktown would be ready, much to Yamamoto’s surprise and dismay.  In strategic terms, the Japanese had lost the Battle of the Coral Sea, for they were forced to pull back from their intended invasion of New Guinea. Strangely enough, given his intelligence and his experience, Yamamoto made his third mistake, one that would also ultimately cost him his life. He did not—as he almost cert