ed their knowledge of World War I tactics to World War II conditions. Two primary examples are Hermann Goering and Ernst Udet. Goering, a twenty-two victory ace (although many of his victory claims are suspect), became head of the new German Luftwaffe. His influence declined after 1940, but whenever he intervened, he did so on the basis of his World War I experience. Udet, with sixty-two victories, was the leading German    80 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  ace to survive the war, and he too attempted to apply World War I ideas (preferring maneuverability over speed), to the detriment of the Luftwaffe.  Far more important, the tactics developed during World War I directly affected the decision processes of the major powers in the series of diplomatic crises precipitated by Germany from 1935 on.  Initially, fighter tactics were slow to evolve, primarily because so few aircraft of the type were available. The first major confrontation of fighter forces came in February 1916, at the notorious Battle of Verdun. As a part of their gigantic preparation which General Falkenhayn predicted would cause the “forces of France to bleed to death,” the Germans stationed most of the aircraft opposite Verdun. Two-seat “C” type aircraft were intended to maintain a “barrage patrol” to prevent French aircraft from operating over the front. These were reinforced by 180 aircraft, mostly Fokker E Is and some of the very similar Pfalz E Is, that were to intercept any French air- craft that eluded the aerial barrier. It was the intent of General Erich von Falkenhayn, who had replaced von Moltke as Chief of Staff, that these aircraft would dominate the skies over Verdun.  At first the German tactics worked well, and French forces were overwhelmed. The French were led by General Henri Philippe Pétain, to whom was attributed the battle cry “They Shall Not Pass.” Pétain reorganized the French system of supplying munitions and personnel, and, in passing, appointed Major Tricornot de Ro