an intercontinental capability. The bulk of his bomber force was B-29s. When he left SAC to become Vice Chief of Staff in 1957, he left behind the most superbly trained and equipped air force in history, with 3,040 aircraft, including 1,543 Boeing B-47 Stratojets (the sixjet, swept-wing bomber that revolutionized avia- tion), 380 of the magnificent eight-engine B-52 Stratofortresses, and, perhaps most important of all, a fleet of 971 tankers, including 182 of the brand-new and highly efficient Boeing KC-135s.  The Cold War, 1945-62 299  The cigar-smoking general had led huge formations of B-17s into Germany during World War II, flying together for protection. Now his jet bombers were designed to strike enemy targets alone or per- haps in cells of three aircraft, with each one carrying within its bomb bay nuclear bombs with the destructive firepower equivalent to a thousand-plane raid from World War II.  SAC worked hard, and LeMay was proud of it. He flaunted its capability, flying B-52s around the world nonstop and fostering pub- licity that dramatized how quickly his force could be scrambled into action. None of this show of force was for self-aggrandizement—it was all intended to convince the Soviet Union that any first strike would be suicidal. It worked.  Air power now had to have a two-part definition: strategic and tactical. The world was divided into two main opposing camps: one headed by the United States, and one headed by the Soviet Union. There was a third camp of nonaligned powers that were wooed by the two superpowers, as they came to be called.  Each of the superpowers was supported by alliances and by client states: the United States by NATO, and the Soviet Union by the Warsaw Pact nations. In this situation, strategic air power became the protector of peace, not by the preemptive attacks that the early prophets had deemed essential, but by promising such total retaliation that any would-be attacker was deterred. But this mutual deterrence did not app