of the most important Egyptian airfields. As soon as the bombs were dropped and the ammunition exhausted in strafing runs, the planes returned to be rearmed and refueled at breakneck speed for another sortie, with Jordanian and Syrian targets now included. By nightfall, more than 1,000 Israeli sorties had destroyed    346 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  350 enemy aircraft, demolished their airfields, and left their armor open for attack. On June 10, the totally defeated Arab nations sul- lenly accepted a UN-imposed cease-fire.’  The effect upon history was fantastic, and continues to this day. For the first time in its existence, Israel had borders that prevented its being overrun by armor in a single day. The Suez Canal became (until 1973) the world’s most effective anti-tank trap. But perhaps more important than anything else, the war moved the Soviet Union firmly into the Middle East picture, as it once again rallied to the support of Arab states, providing them with unlimited arms for the next round in the battle.  Israel, deprived of arms from France, turned to the United States for equipment, receiving the remarkable Douglas A-4H Skyhawk and McDonnell F4E Phantom aircraft to replace their Dassault- built fighters. The economic and political implications of this new flow of arms were enormously important for the future, for the Middle East was now as critical a point of potential conflict for the two superpowers as Southeast Asia.  The War of Attrition, July 1967 to August 1970  The Soviet Union always gave assistance with a heavy hand of advice accompanied by attempts to insinuate its culture as well as its military and political philosophy into the client nations. Even as it provided the Arab states with modern aircraft, armor, and artillery, it offered new ideas. One was critically important. It was the Soviet contention that masses of surface-to-air missiles (SAMs) could neu- tralize the Israeli air superiority. Arab ground forces, with their vast-