ly, and unlike the invention of the aircraft some 120 years later, there was an air of joyous and cooperative bonhomie among the celebrants of the new discipline. Henry Cavendish had discovered both the lifting and the com- bustible properties of “phlogiston” or “inflammable air” in England in 1766. The gas would be named “hydrogen” by Antoine Lavoisier, and its lifting properties would be soon put to use by Professor Jacques Alexandre César Charles, a Parisian physicist.  As would become customary in the development of air power, one element of technology, in this case the lifting properties of hydro- gen, had to be melded with another element to obtain the desired result. It happened that two brothers, Anne-Jean and Marie-Noél Robert, had developed a method of dissolving rubber in linseed oil. When this material was applied over certain cloths (silk or taffeta, for example) as a varnish, the oil evaporated, and the rubber remained to render the cloth impermeable (or almost so) to hydrogen. By early August, the Charles-Robert team had constructed a spherical balloon of red and light-yellow silk. (The original materials were red and white, but the varnish turned the white to light yellow.) Because hydrogen had greater lifting power than hot air, the balloon could be made much smaller, and the initial “aerostat,” as it was called, had a diameter of twelve feet and a volume of 943 cubic feet.  Even such a relatively small balloon required a great deal of hydrogen, and the manufacture of the gas was both difficult and dangerous. Hydrogen gas was generated in a hazardous process in which five hundred pounds of dilute sulphuric acid was poured over one thousand pounds of iron filings. Collecting the hydrogen and transferring the gas into the balloon proved troublesome, and it was only after a great deal of effort that the small balloon, appro- priately named Globe, was filled and transported to the Champs de Mars, later the site of the Eiffel Tower. A tremendous crowd of