fighter, and pressed for the funds to develop one. It was admittedly a difficult task and an early attempt, the Bell YFM-1 Airacuda, was a resounding failure. Unfortunately,  The Growth of Air Power, 1941-43 237  the focus on bombers prevented the development of even such long- proven range-extension devices as drop tanks. In May 1939, the Air Corps, concerned about the fire hazard implicit in a droppable fuel tank, issued an order forbidding tactical aircraft to carry such tanks.  Pursuit aircraft, like all others, were designed to specific require- ments established by the Air Corps. When drop tanks were forbid- den, some manufacturers did not include in their new offerings the fundamental plumbing and connections that made carrying drop tanks possible.  As World War II unfolded in Europe, the United States Army Air Corps found itself with four fighters under development. They were promising in speed, maneuverability, and firepower, but were sig- nificantly lacking in range and in many of the requirements for modern combat, including such things as armor, self-sealing tanks, and adequate radios.  The four aircraft included the Curtiss P-40, Lockheed P-38, Bell P- 39, and Republic P-47. The famous North American P-51 had not yet debuted. Neither the P40 nor the P-39 were suitable for European operations, but performed good work in other theaters, including the Mediterranean and Pacific. There was a high demand for both the P-47 and the P-38 to be based in the United Kingdom. The P-47 had been designed without any provision for drop tanks, and on internal fuel had the ability to escort bombers for less than two hun- dred miles. The P-38, without tanks, could reach out to about three hundred miles—that is, as far as Paris.  On February 20, 1942, General Arnold ordered the full develop- ment of drop tanks for the P-38, P-47, and the P-51, which was only beginning to come into service. There were many delays, as succes- sively larger tanks were tested and deployed, but