moving carpet” which contained the usual images of a landscape, and would use his simulated altitude, air speed, and winds to deter- mine when to release his “bombs.” Other experimentation was done to determine which was the best type of bomb to use on which structures: demolition bombs on brick buildings and railroads, incendiaries on barracks, and so forth.  In war, one weapon calls forth the use of another. On April 22, 1915, the Germans introduced gas warfare by discharging 168 tons of chlorine from four thousand cylinders in the Ypres salient. Two French divisions and one Canadian division were the target of this devastating attack and those that followed. Had the Germans thought to have adequate forces in hand to exploit the gap they cre- ated in the lines, the course of the war might have changed. As it happened, the battle ground to a halt in a series of bloody attacks and counterattacks, as most did on the Western Front, with nothing to show for it but casualties on both sides.  Yet the French were prompt to take action in response. On May 27, 1915, all eighteen aircraft of GB-1 took off in fifteen-second intervals at 3:00 A.M. to bomb the Badische Anilin und Soda factories  92 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  at Ludwigshafen, where the chlorine gas was presumed to have been produced. All aircraft but the one flown by Major de Goys returned, and the factory reportedly suffered damage. (De Goys survived and later became a general in the French Air Force.)  The Germans soon reacted to further French attacks on indus- trial targets, and the inferior performance of the Voisin showed up immediately. When taxed to the utmost, the Voisin bombers cruised at seventy-five miles per hour and had a range of about three hun- dred miles. On the outbound journey, with a tail wind of twenty-five miles per hour, they could cover a hundred-mile bombing raid in one hour. On the return flight, however, the ground speed dropped to fifty miles per hour, and the Germans h