craft were ordered. Under his successor, Guy LeChambre, the concept of a strategic air arm was dropped, and emphasis was placed on fighters for defense. France was forced to purchase aircraft from the United States, with the result that the outmoded Curtiss P-36 Mohawk was one of France’s first-line fight- ers when World War II began.  It was perhaps Cot’s misfortune that no French airmen of equiv- alent stature and vision emerged to work with him and second his ideas. The Air Force Chief of Staff from 1938 to 1940, General Joseph Vuillemin, typified the French officers. Vuillemin was a brave and very experienced officer, but his chief contribution was to be  Growth of Air-Power Theory 163  thoroughly duped by the Germans. On a courtesy visit to Germany in August 1938, he was shown a Potemkin air force that completely destroyed his belief in the possibility of France resisting Germany in a war.  Thus French aviation struggled fitfully in the short twenty-one years between the wars. No coherent theory of air power emerged, and French aircraft, like French tanks, were assigned to support army units in their strictly defensive role. Individual French pilots fought bravely when the German attack came in the spring of 1940, but they had no chance to influence the outcome.  Soviet Union  The totally inadequate efforts of Imperial Russia to establish an effective air service disappeared in the flames of the October Revolution. Experience of a sort was gained in the civil war that fol- lowed, and in the simultaneous war with Poland from 1918 to 1920.  During the 1920s, the Soviet Union attempted to establish an avi- ation industry and an air force. It was fortunate to have some excel- lent leaders, but development was always limited by the paranoid cruelty of dictator Joseph Stalin. Stalin called forth the very best efforts from people under his command, and, initially, rewarded those who did well with promotions and privilege. Doing well, how- ever, carried with it the haz