rained pilots.  The Japanese also planned to use 100 land-based planes in their attack on the United States fleet, operating them out of the Marianas. Mitscher took care of these by launching a preemptive strike on June 11 that destroyed the land-based aircraft in a single attack. Four days later, another American force, Task Group 58.1, under Rear Admiral Joseph James (“Jocko”) Clark, began a series of strikes that ranged all the way up to Iwo Jima, destroying 175 additional aircraft. All of this was but a preliminary to the June 19-20 Battle of the Philippine Sea. There American naval air power triumphed completely in what became known as the “Great Marianas Turkey Shoot.” Some four hun- dred Japanese aircraft were either shot down or lost on the three air- craft carriers that were sunk. Saipan fell on July 9, Tinian on August 1, and Guam on August 10, completing the conquest of the Marianas. Work immediately began on the airfields from which Boeing B-29s would batter Japan into submission.  There was one major naval battle to come, in Leyte Gulf. There, in a last “death charge,” sixty-four ships of the Japanese Imperial fleet set out to engage 219 ships of the United States Navy, using a typically too-complex Japanese battle plan. The battle raged across    True Air Superiority, Then Absolute Air Supremacy, 1944-45 273  thousands of square miles of ocean and ended in two results: the utter and final defeat of the Japanese Navy and the introduction of suicide tactics with the Kamikaze attacks. The latter would become Japan’s futile last hope, inflicting terrible casualties on American forces at Iwo Jima and Okinawa, captured on March 26 and July 2, 1945, respective- ly. In both places, the Japanese resisted fiercely, forcing U.S. Marine and Army units to fight for every foot of land at a terrible cost in lives.  The United States Navy’s success exposed for the second time the curious contradiction in the study of the influence of air power on history. Air power, n