terrent effect, with the formidable French Army consigned to a defensive role. The fiery air minister campaigned for a larger air force, and in 1933 pushed through a production plan that envis- aged 1,010 aircraft, consisting of 350 bombers, 350 fighters, and 310 reconnaissance planes. Unfortunately, the stagnant French bureaucratic system meant that the plan would not be accom- plished until 1937, by which time the aircraft would be obsolete.  When back in power in 1936, Cot again attempted to accelerate French aircraft procurement. This time he was handicapped by a series of bitter strikes that brought production to a halt. The French Air Force was bankrupt in terms of aircraft, personnel, and produc- tion facilities. Cot brought about the nationalization of the French aircraft industry. By January 1937, 80 percent of the previously cot- tage-style French industry was nationalized, with the state acquiring two-thirds of the stock. Only a few firms, including Breguet, Amiot, Morane-Saulnier, Latecore, Caudron-Renault, Gourdou, and Levasseur were permitted to remain in private hands.* Only 10 per- cent of the aero engine industry was nationalized, even though France lagged behind other nations in the production of high-pow- ered engines. A decision to disperse aircraft manufacturers, for- merly concentrated around Paris, to other parts of the country also contributed to the general low quantity of aircraft manufactured.  Cot called for France to produce the aircraft that would permit it to obtain control of the air, and to carry out strategic bombard- ment. Despite his best efforts, France’s confused procurement sys- tem could not initiate the procurement of fairly modern designs until 1938, when the first Morane-Saulnier M.S. 406 fighters and Potez 630 multipurpose aircraft were ordered. Under his successor, Guy LeChambre, the concept of a strategic air arm was dropped, and emphasis was placed on fighters for defense. France was forced to purchase aircraft from the