strated on sever- al occasions during World War II, as when Jimmy Doolittle was able to deliver a surprise raid on Tokyo in 1942, or when the battered German Luftwaffe was able to conduct a strong (if futile) attack on January 1, 1945, against Allied airfields in Holland, Belgium, and France. (There were many parallels to this situation in sea power, as in the War of 1812, when the presence of the modest United States Navy was perceived as a tremendous threat because of its proximity to Britain’s New World markets.) As a result, the end goal in most modern conflict is the complete eradication of enemy air power and the establishment of air supremacy, permitting the free use of air power, as in the Persian Gulf War, the Balkans, and Afghanistan.  Air power might be termed “aerospace power” when (as is most often the case currently) it is exercised in or through space by means of intercontinental ballistic missiles, or via the medium of space assets, such as navigation, communication, meteorological, or intelligence satellites. In this book, the term air power is intended to mean both air and aerospace power.  Both air power and aerospace power are made up of military and civil components. The military and uniformed components of the aerospace power of the United States, for example, include the United States Air Force, and the aircraft and missile-operating com- ponents of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard. The civil components include all of the elements of the entire nation, includ- ing its leadership, industry, natural resources, and general population.  Modern air power is so replete with the most advanced technol- ogy that the average citizen is amazed at the degree of expertise and achievement associated with it. Yet this has been a fundamental con- dition of air power all through history, from balloons to the remark- able use of air power in the very first days of World War I.  The Influence of Air Power upon History    Chapter One  Fledgling Wings