edo planes, and twenty Grumman F4F fighters, followed by the Yorktown launching seventeen SBDs, twelve TBDs, and six F4Fs just thirty minutes later. The outcome of the battle had turned on intelligence most of all, for thanks to dedicated American code-breakers like then- Commander Joseph J. Rochefort, the Japanese intentions had been known. It turned also upon luck, for the spotting of the Japanese fleet by Lieutenant Commander Wade C. McClusky Jr. was purely a  230 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  matter of his happening to have chanced to turn in the right direc- tion at the right time. But most of all it depended upon gallantry, for the Devastator torpedo bombers had continued to press home their attack even when it was evident that their losses would be high. Doing so brought the Japanese Zero fighter combat air patrol down low, which enabled the Douglas Dauntless dive-bombers to make their runs with great success.  All four Japanese carriers were destroyed by the gallant actions of American torpedo planes and dive-bombers. The United States lost the Yorktown, but Midway was saved. It was a decisive defeat that changed the course of the war, for the Japanese never won another major campaign against the United States. The Battle of Midway serves, with the Battle of Britain, as a prime example of the influ- ence of air power on history.  Yamamoto would go on to make further errors, particularly dur- ing the bitter Battle of Guadalcanal. There the Japanese Navy fought some brilliant winning naval engagements, but Yamamoto insisted on providing reinforcements in a piecemeal manner and never in the strength necessary. Despite repeated attempts, the Japanese were never able to drive the American forces from their grip on the vital Henderson Field, the air base from which United States air power could dictate the eventual course of the battle.  Perhaps realizing just how true his prediction of fighting well for just six months had been, Yamamoto became ever mo