ly championing the aircraft carrier over the battle- ship. From 1930-33, he was Chief of the Technical Division of Naval Aviation, and was there able to put his beliefs into practice, causing a program to be implemented that increased the buildup of carri- ers at the expense of battleships.  Yamamoto opposed war with the United States because he knew it could not be won. Nonetheless, when war was decided upon,  168 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Yamamoto conceived the plan for the attack on Pearl Harbor and lobbied hard for its adoption. Thanks to his campaign for an ade- quate carrier fleet, his plan was successful, at least in part. He was also an avid proponent of the development of indigenous aircraft designs, pushing hard for the Type 96 bomber, the Mitsubishi G3M, which amazed the world with its long-range bombing attacks on China, and later, with its role in the sinking of the Repulse and Prince of Wales.  Yamamoto, however, lost face with his colossal defeat at the Battle of Midway in June 1942, and then presided ineffectively over the declining Japanese Navy until his death in combat on April 18, 1943, when he was shot down by a daring long-range attack by USAAF Lockheed P-38s.  Although Japan may not have produced a war-winning air-power theorist, it did have many able tacticians, such as Captain Kuroshima Kameto, who suggested Yamamoto’s Pearl Harbor attack; Commander Minoru Genda, who drafted the plan; and Lieutenant Commander Mitsuo Fuchida, who led the raid. There were also many superb Japanese carrier captains, but in general both the Japanese Army and Navy lacked high-quality leaders who believed strongly in air power.  Chapter Five  Air Power and Its Influence Between the Wars  Timing and technology are incredibly important to the employ- ment of air power in a war, but equally important is a nation’s will to defend itself by spending a sufficient amount on armament dur- ing times of relative peace. In the 1918-39 period, the air-power wor