mburg, in which some forty- five thousand were killed and almost that many injured, and cul- minating in the notorious attack on Dresden in 1945. He would begin a campaign against Berlin in August 1943 that would increase over time, reaching a crescendo in 1944. That campaign would bankrupt his philosophy of area bombing and give the Luftwaffe its last major victory—aerial superiority in the night skies of Germany.  One Final Chance  One surprising aspect of air power was the manner in which a lit- tle air power in the right spot at the right time could have an effect all out of proportion to the assets involved. This was true in the Battle of Britain, and even more so in the Battle of Midway, in which a relative handful of aircraft decided the battle.  The opposite was also true. There were instances in the war where a campaign was lost because it lacked just a few aircraft that would have contributed decisive results. Perhaps the most impor- tant instance of this phenomenon was the Battle of the Atlantic, where a comparative handful of German submarines came within just months of forcing Great Britain to its knees.  Germany began the war with a tiny fleet of fifty-nine submarines of which only thirty-six were oceangoing types. This meant that the German Navy could keep only a few at sea at a time. Initially the number could be as few as six, but as the war proceeded, and sub- marine production accelerated, there came to be as many as a hun- dred U-boats at sea in 1943.  The U-boat fleet was centrally controlled by radio from the head- quarters of Admiral Karl Doenitz, a veteran submariner from World War I. Doenitz introduced the wolf-pack tactics by which German submarines stalked a convoy and then attacked simultaneously in as great a number as possible. The success of this tactic was so great that by March 1943 Doenitz believed that he had almost defeated England, as he had promised he would do. In that one month alone, German U-boats sank 105 ships of 590,234 t