IR POWER UPON HISTORY  amateur. And he was pilot enough to realize that his Martin MB-2 bombers lacked the range, speed, and instruments to be as effective as he claimed they would be. Yet he also knew that other bombers with the necessary capability would follow if the time and money necessary were devoted to creating them. Mitchell was well aware that he could not deliver what he claimed while he was claiming it— and this awareness made him despicable in the eyes of his oppo- nents. But he was also aware that if his claims paved the way for an independent air force, and if that air force was allowed to develop his ideas of bombing, he would make the United States the most powerful nation in the world. As controversial as he was, he suc- ceeded in this objective in a way that no other philosopher of air power would approach for almost sixty years.  Germany  Germany did not produce a philosopher of air power compara- ble to Douhet, Trenchard, or Mitchell. Instead it looked carefully at the past, analyzed the statements of Douhet and others, then com- mitted itself to a course of action that in time led to the mighty German Luftwaffe of World War II. The land of von Richthofen would have remarkable good fortune in the selection of its air force leaders from 1919 through 1936, and remarkably bad fortune in the years that followed. The Five Factors came into play, but because of circumstances, they operated in a different, sometimes completely opposite, manner from the way they operated in other countries.  Germany ended World War I with only its air service still capable of putting up an effective defense, a fact the Allies recognized in the Versailles Treaty by absolutely denying Germany any air force at all and severely restricting its capability to build civilian aircraft. Thus, while Great Britain and the United States demolished their air ser- vices voluntarily through a helter-skelter demobilization, Germany’s air service was forcibly demobilized.  The treaty al