ecause it still required armed forces to maintain order in its fast- diminishing empire. In terms of stopping Soviet aggression, howev- er, the RAF was as impotent as USAAF conventional forces.  Perhaps the only offset to the demobilization factor was the reor- ganization of the armed forces of the United States by the National Security Act of 1947, which established the United States Air Force as a separate service. The new service became independent on September 18, 1947, with the swearing in of the first Secretary of the Air Force, Stuart W. Symington. He would soon have his hands full. One of his principal problems would be the long and bitter strug- gle with the United States Navy over roles and missions. The Navy protested the USAF’s possession of long-range bombers such as the B-36 in what became known as the “Revolt of the Admirals.”* Ultimately, as will be noted below, the Navy sought to have its own strategic and tactical nuclear capability.  The Soviet Union now determined that it would move the Western Allies from the zones they occupied in West Berlin by plac- ing a stranglehold on their supply lines. It began on April 1, 1948, with restrictions on road and rail traffic. Then on June 22, the sev- enth anniversary of Hitler’s invasion of the Soviet Union, all barge, rail, and road traffic into West Berlin was halted. The Soviets backed up this land and water blockade with thirty full-strength army divi- sions—as many as 400,000 troops— supported by a capable tactical air force. The United States had only 60,000 troops in Europe, of which only a fraction were in combat units.  In terms of air power, the new USAF was bankrupt. As a show of force, parts of four B-29 bombardment groups were sent to Britain. It was a bluff, as they brought no atomic bombs with them, but the Soviet Union could not be sure about that. A token force of sixteen Lockheed F-80 jet fighters was flown to Germany.    The Cold War, 1945-62 291  The Western Allies seemed to have two alt