a beautiful new fighter that featured a laminar-flow wing and an innovative low- drag radiator system. (The laminar flow wing was the product of NACA research, and points up the value of a government-supported research agency.) The first aircraft rolled out in 102 days, but had to wait eigh- teen days for the delivery of the engine.’ The first flight was made on October 26, 1940, with veteran test pilot Vance Breese at the controls.  It was soon evident that the NA-73, as it was designated, was the best American fighter yet produced, but the USAAF ordered only two, as XP-51s, for test purposes. The Mustang, as it was called, entered RAF service in April 1942, equipped with the American Allison engine, which lacked the two-speed, two-stage supercharg- ing necessary for high-altitude work. Instead, it excelled in high- speed, low-altitude missions. Its future was forecast in October, when it became the first American fighter to penetrate Germany, flying a reconnaissance mission to Dortmund.  The second improbable circumstance, which raised the Mustang from a good, well-liked, low-level fighter to perhaps the    True Air Superiority, Then Absolute Air Supremacy, 1944-45 263  best piston-engine fighter of the war, occurred when Major Thomas Hitchcock, a famous polo player serving as an assistant air attaché at the American embassy in London, suggested that the best avail- able engine, the Rolls-Royce Merlin, be installed in the Mustang.  It was a superb idea, and after considerable testing and modifi- cation, the North American P-51B emerged. It outperformed the Messerschmitt Bf 109F and G and the Focke Wulf FW 190 in almost all important flight characteristics. Best of all, with an additional eighty-five-gallon internal tank and two seventy-five-gallon drop tanks, it could escort bombers all the way to Berlin and back. Fuel had to be used out of the new internal tank first, to keep the center of gravity within limits, but by the time that fuel was used, and the two ext