o that enemy air forces were not allowed to operate anywhere at any time, while friendly air forces were permitted to carry out their missions with little interference. In more recent conflicts, the strategic sights were raised again so that the aim is to establish not just command of the air, but air dominance, in which all of the enemy air and land defenses are completely destroyed and offensive missions can be conducted with impunity.  The pilots and observers of early World War I reconnaissance air- craft had sought to destroy each other from the start. There were instances in which passing enemy aircraft waved courteously enough, but it was war, and duty called for damage to be done to the foe. The limited power of early reconnaissance aircraft made it difficult to equip them with an effective weapon. Some combats ensued with the opponents using side arms or rifles and some aircraft were shot down, but for the most part, the correct combination of aircraft and arma- ment was not reached until the advent of the Fokker E I. It was not the first to use a machine gun mounted on the centerline of the airplane and firing forward, through the propeller, but it soon became recog- nized as the most effective and efficient.  To Roland Garros and the French go the honors for creating the first fighter mounting a machine gun firing through the propeller. Previously, some pusher-types (propeller in the rear) had been fit- ted with a forward-firing machine gun, and some tractor types (pro- peller in the front) had guns mounted on top of the wing, or at bizarre angles that required double deflection shooting. These types were generally so slow that they could not engage in combat at will, and the installations were awkward to use. Many early aircraft had the pilot in the rear, and the observer in the front seat, under the wing, from where it was almost impossible to shoot.  Fighters and Bombers 77  Air combat is difficult under all circumstances, as it is conducted in three d