t was only after a great deal of effort that the small balloon, appro- priately named Globe, was filled and transported to the Champs de Mars, later the site of the Eiffel Tower. A tremendous crowd of more than 50,000 gathered, and among the many notable dignitaries was a future president, sixteen-year-old John Quincy Adams, and the American most beloved by the French (if not always by his fellow Americans), Benjamin Franklin. At five o’clock in the afternoon on August 27, 1783, the balloon was released, and the masses cheered as  388 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  it ascended to be caught by the wind. Franklin’s later description can be recaptured today with an ordinary helium-filled toy balloon, for he noted that it appeared to diminish in size as it rose, until it entered the clouds.’  To Franklin, at the time America’s premier scientist as well as foremost diplomat, the flight of the balloon was filled with both por- tent and potential. To a scoffer who asked, “Of what use is it?” he made the famous reply, “What is the use of a newborn babe?” But he also immediately realized, as had Joseph Montgolfier, that the balloon could have a military application.  The first Charles balloon had a more adventurous flight than that of the first Montgolfier, for the Globe sailed fifteen miles, ascending until the expanding hydrogen burst the envelope, then landing northeast of Paris at Gonesse, the same small town where an ill-fated Air France supersonic Concorde airliner would crash 213 years later. There the terrified peasants attacked the balloon with pitchforks and staves, succeeding in subduing it. Fortunately, all of the action took place where there were no open flames, or the peasants might have been truly convinced that they were dealing with the devil.  Ballooning became immensely popular. There was a flood of experimenters, as well as a flood of merchandisers as the balloon craze swept first France, and then the rest of the continent and Great Britain. Th