e became more generally available, and later, when the internal combustion engine came into general use.  These two innovations were first exploited by Paul Haenlein. In 1872, Haenlein’s large 1872 airship cleverly ran an early internal combustion engine on gas from the envelope rather than carrying a separate fuel supply. The 164foot-long envelope held 85,000 cubic feet of coal gas, which had only about one-half the lifting power of hydrogen. Haenlein’s dirigible was not completely suc- cessful, but it pointed the way to the future.  The next notable attempt was made by a veteran of balloon flights during the siege of Paris, Gaston Tissandier, and his broth- er, Albert. Their airship was only ninety-two feet long, but was filled with hydrogen, giving it ample lift. Their choice of electric power was a mistake, however, for the Siemens electric motor    Fledgling Wings 23  they selected had only one-and-one-half horsepower, and could drive the dirigible at only three miles per hour.  It was fitting that the first successful dirigible would come from the old Aérostier’s headquarters at Chalais-Meudon near Paris, where, in 1877, the Central Military Installation for Ballooning had been creat- ed, the first of the great government-sponsored aeronautical laborato- ries, like those at Farnborough in England and McCook Field in the United States. Created by the portly Lieutenant Colonel Charles Renard and Captain Arthur Krebs, the dirigible La France lifted off from Chilais-Meudon on August 9, 1884. It flew for twenty-three min- utes in a great circle, averaging about fourteen miles per hour. It was the first time that an airship had been able to make a controlled flight with a return to its starting point. The 165-footlong La France was inflated with 66,000 cubic feet of hydrogen, and was powered by an eight-horsepower electric motor weighing 220 pounds. These were energized by a special installation of 1,500 pounds of chlorochromic batteries designed by Renard. Krebs ha