onstituted their balloon corps with the advent of  64 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  trench warfare. By October 1914, they had ten balloon companies fielding thirty balloons in service, and from that point on the French balloon industry would grow by leaps and bounds.  Captain Albert Caquot, who was always at the forefront of new developments and would become one of the most important engi- neers in the history of the French Air Force, made his mark first by improving on the German balloon design with larger vertical surfaces. He also designed a better two-motor winch mounted on a four-wheel- drive truck chassis to haul the balloon up and down. Some four thou- sand of the Caquot balloons were built during the war, and they were also used by the British and Americans. When some Caquot balloons were torn from their moorings by a storm and drifted over German lines, their features were studied and adopted by the Germans.”  Both sides found the balloons to be invaluable for artillery spot- ting, maintaining contact with advancing troops, and general recon- naissance. They would continue to be used throughout the First World War, and in many smaller conflicts thereafter. The Germans were even able to employ them on quiet sections of the Eastern Front during World War II. Balloons were vulnerable to attack by fighter aircraft, and the advent of accurate long-range artillery made it generally impossible to position balloons at a point from which they could see beyond enemy lines.”  The balloon had certain advantages over early reconnaissance air- craft. It could be maintained in one position for long periods of time, and the observers had direct telephone contact with the ground. Balloon observers became expert in their field, knowing the battle- field so well that they could immediately detect a newly dug line of trenches or the shift in the position of a battery. The aircraft moved swiftly over a larger area, but its pilot or observer could not have the same in