Air Power in Small Wars  It would be convenient if this book on the influence of air power could end with its apotheosis, air power in the Gulf War. In the years that followed there were new emergencies in new locations—Bosnia, Serbia, and Afghanistan—that required a response. These responses were hampered by the severe drawdown in United States and NATO military strength and a weak (and during the Bill Clinton years, a vacillating) American presidential administration severely troubled by domestic issues. Nonetheless, air power was able to eventually force solutions, though not without tremendous economic cost.  The collapse of the Soviet Union had effect upon its neighbors. Yugoslavia, which had prospered as an independent Communist state under Marshal Tito, was divided into Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Slovenia, and Macedonia, with Serbia and Montenegro comprising a rump Yugoslavia. Internal ethnic problems with a Muslim minority were exacerbated by aggression from Serbia led by Slobodan Milosevic, now under indictment as a war criminal.    362 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  After many negotiations and many warnings, the United Nations sanctioned operations by North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces, to halt the ethnic cleansing which had reached vicious proportions. For two years, beginning in April 1993, NATO air operations (Operation Deny Flight) in Bosnia were tinged with failure because they were inadequately planned and encumbered by United Nations constraints reminiscent of the rules of engagement of the Vietnam War. Air-power effectiveness was proven again in Operation Deliberate Force, conducted from August 30 to September 20, 1995, and designed to force the Bosnian Serb Army to cease shelling UN-designated “safe areas” throughout Bosnia. As NATO’s first sustained air operation, Deliberate Force saw 293 aircraft of eight NATO countries fly 3,515 sorties, of which 750 were strike sor- ties. The result was an uncertain truce that for