ding force, and warned McDowell. The Union commander could then have changed his dispositions enough to hold off the combined Beauregard/Johnston attack and win the day. If he had, he might have brought the Civil War to an end in its first summer, saving the country much suffering and avoiding his own subsequent dismal military career.  But it was not to be. Wise not only failed at Manassas, but suffered a continuing series of humiliations, including the loss of a balloon that he was attempting to move, inflated, across the Georgetown aqueduct bridge. This balloon became a notable air-power first when it was brought down by friendly musket fire from the ground—the world’s first aerial victory, scored by unnamed rifle- men of the Union Army. Sadly, neither of the failures was Wise’s fault, but were caused by a general lack of understanding of the use of balloons and the kind of expert support that they required.  The misuses of resources would be a continuing problem in mil- itary aviation, from the way in which Royal Air Force fighters were squandered in ground attack missions during World War II to the manner in which the USAF was forced by rules of engagement to employ its bombers and fighters during the Vietnam War.  Wise’s erstwhile partner in the Adlantic escapade, John La Mountain, had somewhat better luck in his operations, if not in his career. He too had volunteered early as a balloonist, but no one responded to the bombardment of letters he sent to everyone from the Secretary of War on down. Apparently by coincidence, and based on his well-established reputation as a balloonist, he received a letter from Major General Benjamin F. Butler, who was soon to earn the nickname “Beast Butler” from the ladies of New Orleans. Butler required his services as an aero- naut at Fortress Monroe, which was situated at the very point where the James River enters the Chesapeake Bay. The fort overlooked Hampton Roads, the Confederate batteries at Sewall’s Point, and Norfolk