emendous sums to have been spent upon military aeronautics. Air power had evolved so far beyond the most extreme force that Douhet, Trenchard, Mitchell, and others had prophesied that their most dire predic- tions now seemed almost innocent in comparison.  It was abundantly evident that the exercise of air power required far more than a fleet of bombers flown by adventuresome young amateurs, as envisioned by Douhet and others. Instead, air power demanded the dedication of entire industries—aeronautical, elec- tronic, munitions—and the talents of thousands of scientists. It fur- ther required extraordinary numbers of aircraft, at least an order of magnitude more than any air-power prophet had envisaged. These massive numbers in their turn required millions of spare parts, modification kits, untold tons of fuel, and similar massive quantities of every ordinary support item down to rations and clothing for the millions of personnel involved. Air power required an entirely new infrastructure of bases, plus navigation, meteorological, and com- munication systems far more capable than anything previously imagined. Most of all, air power required courageous, well-trained, and proficient air and ground crews who were intelligently led by professionals. These leaders had to understand how to apply their air power, knowing full well that thousands under their command would die to achieve their mission.  Each combatant nation reached some level of this new measure of air power, and each by different means. The Soviet Union attained it by its usual methods: a ruthless massive exploitation of its people and material resources at whatever cost to repel the Nazi invaders.  252 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  It saw air power as it saw artillery and mass infantry advances, an instrument to be used in such quantities that any opponent was sim- ply swamped by the sheer magnitude of the effort. Losses were unimportant—there were always more planes and more men—and there was a