rse. Germany believed itself to be denied the rights of other great nations and feared that it was being surrounded by its enemies. France still suffered from the humilia- tion of 1870 and longed for revenge. Britain felt that its industrial, trade, and naval supremacy was threatened by Germany. Austria- Hungary was subject to rebellious calls for independence from many of its member-states, a situation exacerbated by Russia’s diplo- matic efforts in its own interests. Italy was just beginning to develop a sense of itself as a nation and wished to reassert its power in the Mediterranean world. The years of repression combined with its defeat at the hands of Japan had brought Russia nearer to revolu- tion than ever, and the management of both the state and the armed forces was conducted in a haphazard manner.  Tradition, treaties, and misunderstandings had resulted in an alliance that bound France and Russia together, with Great Britain closely aligned. Germany and the Austro-Hungarian Empire were allied, and believed that they were supported both by Italy and the Ottoman Empire.  Each of the nations maintained large military forces, best suited to their needs, with Great Britain depending upon its navy, and a very small army. The French Army was large, well trained, and bursting with élan, that joyous insanity which caused young men in bright uni- forms to fling themselves forward time and again against murderous machine-gun fire. Having learned from Trafalgar onward that it could never compete with the British fleet, France maintained a navy adequate only to protect its interests in the Mediterranean and to show the flag elsewhere. Italy had a relatively small army but enjoyed an extensive reserve system. Its navy was intended to be a match for Austro-Hungarian forces. Germany had a huge army, and its navy had been built up in the costly naval arms race with Great Britain. The Austro-Hungarian Army was relatively large, but, like the rest of the empire, lacked cohe