in- ued to be used by Jourdan until the Battle of Wurzburg, where Jourdan suffered one of his rare defeats and the first balloon com- pany was captured by the Austrians.  There now occurred one of the typical events in the development of air power—the inability of a commander to make appropriate use of it. When Coutelle became ill in 1796, responsibility was transferred to a Captain DeLaunay, an officer known for his lackadaisical approach to duty. As a result of DeLaunay’s failure, the Commander of the Army, General Louis-Lazare Hoche, thought the balloon to be useless. Hoche was a gruff soldier who had risen like a rocket from the enlisted ranks. Commissioned a captain in 1792, he became a general in 1793. In his usual abrupt manner Hoche requested that the balloon company be removed from his command.  This unfortunate and ill-informed judgment after so much good work sounded the death knell of the French balloon corps. The First Company was returned to French service after the capture of Leoben, and was reorganized under the command of Coutelle. Fate dictated that the new unit be included in Napoleon’s army that was being sent to Egypt—a move designed largely to remove the increas- ingly popular (and thus dangerous) Bonaparte from the continent. The balloon contingent was never used in Egypt, and its equipment was lost when the British sank the French fleet in the Battle of the Nile. On January 18, 1799, the two balloon companies were official- ly disbanded, and the Ecole Nationale Aérostatique at Meudon was closed. The great French experiment in air power, conducted so well, and with such good effect, had ended.  There were numerous attempts over the next sixty years to use the balloon in warfare, but only one of them was conducted with the full rigor, military discipline, and common sense of the French Aérostier units. That exception was the Austrian use of balloons in the siege of Vienna in 1849. The American efforts during the Civil War, while relatively larg