, facing Germany, had only 138 Morane- Saulnier M.S. 406 and 94 American Curtiss Hawk H-75 single-seat fighters at its disposal. These were augmented by thirty-seven of the handsome but vulnerable multi-seat Potez 630 and 631 aircraft.  To the immense relief of the French High Command, the Germans did not, as expected, make a violent opening attack on French air- fields. The Germans were preoccupied with their conquest of Poland, and more than willing to keep things “quiet on the Western Front.” It was the beginning of what the French called the drole de guerre, the British the “phony war,” and the Germans the Sitzkrieg.  Just as in 1914, Britain deployed a British Expeditionary Force (BEF) to France, this time with a sizeable Air Component com- posed primarily of obsolescent aircraft. By January 1940, organiza- tional reform had changed the title of these RAF assets to the British Air Force in France (BAFF).  Neither France nor Britain, despite their treaty guarantees, made any serious attempt to assist Poland even by air, preferring instead to remain on the defensive and await the German onslaught—an exam- ple of an erroneous lesson learned from World War I. Hitler could not have dared to dream of a strategy more in Germany’s interests, for a determined ground assault by France’s 110 divisions against the 30-odd German divisions in the West might easily have altered the war’s out- come even as Poland surrendered. It was the Rhineland experience once more. The French had overwhelming means at their disposal; the Germans could have put up only token resistance. Unfortunately the French High Command lacked the courage and, perhaps the most important factor in the exercise of air power, the will to act.  Instead, desperately aware of their own weakness, both Britain and France took no major offensive action on the Western Front and kept air activity to a minimum. During the eight months between September 1939 and April 1940, the French lost only sixty- three aircraft,