sted of the body of a B.E.2c aircraft slung beneath the bag of a Willows airship, thus creat- ing the S.S. (submarine scout) airship. This was succeeded in service by the larger C airships. The crews of these craft conducted long and lonely vigils far out to sea, with submarine sightings occurring about once in every 2,416 hours of flight.  The second type was America’s most significant contribution to the air war in World War I, the Curtiss H.4 “Small America,” and its improved successor, the H.12 “Large America.” The latter resulted from the practical improvements conceived by Lieutenant Colonel John C. Porte, whose recommendations overcame the rather poor seaworthiness of the H.4.*°  The Curtiss flying boats became an important component of RNAS craft involved in “The Spider Web,” a special patrol designed to hunt German submarines. The Spider Web was sixty miles in diameter, with the North Hinder light vessel as the central point. It was an octagonal figure with eight radial arms each thirty-eight nau- tical miles in length. Circumferential lines at ten, twenty, and thirty miles from the center crossed each of the arms. The pattern allowed searching four thousand square miles of the sea. Four aircraft could search the entire area in less than five hours. German U-boats pass- ing through the area stood a good chance of being sighted.  Curtiss H.12s claimed to have sunk at least four German sub- marines, and shot down the airship L 22. Yet as incredibly valuable as they and the other patrol aircraft of the RNAS proved to be, their use was overlooked by both the British and the German military in  72 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  their planning for World War II. Great Britain began World War II with a severely limited Coastal Command, and it was not until 1943 when the American Consolidated B-24 became available in quantity that it was able to establish patrol patterns that could control the vital areas of the North Atlantic. Germany not only began the w