. There was never any question in Truman’s mind that the bomb should be used if it would save American lives, but he wanted Japan to have an opportunity to surrender if possible before the bomb was dropped. An ultimatum was issued on July 26, 1945, at the Potsdam Conference calling for the Japanese to surrender and promising prompt and utter destruction if they did not. The new Japanese Prime Minister, Suzuki Kantaro, responded using the term mokusatsu, by which he meant to convey the Japanese equivalent of “no comment.” Interpreters, however, understood the word to be contemptuous rejection of the Potsdam Declaration—and the die was cast for dropping the atomic bomb.  Ultimate Air Power  The $2-billion American investment in the atomic bomb depend- ed entirely upon the $3-billion investment in the B-29, for there was then no other aircraft capable of delivering it. Specially picked Boeing B-29s built at the Martin factory in Omaha, Nebraska, were modified to carry the bomb, and a special unit, the 509th Composite Group, was selected to fly those B-29s. Commanded by Colonel Paul Tibbetts, a veteran of the Eighth Air Force, the men of the 509th were given extraordinary training without being told what their mission was until two days before the bomb was to be dropped—and even then they were not told that it was to be an atomic bomb.  A list of targets was drawn up, made up of the largest cities which had the least damage already done to them. These included Kyoto, Hiroshima, Niigata, and Kokura, but Kyoto was dropped from the list because of its cultural significance to the Japanese. Nagasaki was substituted for Kyoto, with fateful results.  Hiroshima’s population had been greatly reduced by mass    True Air Superiority, Then Absolute Air Supremacy, 1944-45 281  evacuations, but there were still many military installations, and like all Japanese cities, it was geared entirely to the war effort. It also had the positive feature that there were no Allied prisoner of wa