ohnston. The gas-filled balloons used silk in their construction, leading to the myth that they had been built from the dresses of patriotic Confederate women. Neither of the gas balloons was used in a significant way.  Balloons would continue to see limited use by various military units, but there were no further attempts to use them on the scale achieved by either the French Aérostiers or the querulous American Civil War balloonists. The British Army used balloons in the Boer    416 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  War. The Italians had rather less success with balloons in Ethiopia in 1890 than it would have with aircraft forty-five years later. The French used them in what would become French Indo-china in 1894 and in Madagascar in 1895. The United States made limited but successful use of the balloon in Cuba during the Spanish- American War of 1898.°  It was not until World War I that the dictates of trench warfare made balloon observation indispensable. The intensive use that all warring factions made of balloons was covered earlier.  Development of lighter-than-air vehicles continued, however, with great advances made in powered airships. Henri Giffard had created the first airship in 1852, and over the next fifty years many more would follow. The Brazilian bon vivant, Alberto Santos- Dumont, had success, as did Thomas Scott Baldwin, who demon- strated his airship the California Arrow at the St. Louis World’s Fair of 1904.  And there was another thread in this story, one that directly links the ballooning efforts of the Civil War and the Siege of Paris with the air campaigns of both World War I and World War II. The cus- todian of that thread is Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin.  As a young man of excellent family, von Zeppelin was treated roy- ally on his visit to the United States in 1863, during which he observed a balloon ascension. Then, in his capacity as a dashing cav- alry officer in the Wurttemburg Cavalry Brigade in 1871, he wit- nessed the Frenc