he successes alluded to were the result of aerial reconnaissance, and struck directly at the heart of the notorious Schlieffen plan (see below) upon which not only German strategy, but in fact, Germany’s willingness to go to war, was based.  Before investigating these undeniable aerial achievements, it is necessary to see just how the opposing forces were equipped in those early August days of 1914, for they reflected years of planning and the best hopes of prominent individuals on both sides. Success in the use of air power would, from the very start, depend on a combina- tion of two circumstances: visionary leadership at the top, and capable  48 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  men at the operational level. Not all nations were equally blessed with these two states of affairs.  By 1914, Germany and France had each expended the equivalent of $26 million on their respective air services. Russia had spent $12 million, while Britain is estimated to have spent about $9 million. The United States was not yet engaged in war, and had spent only about $400,000. (All amounts measured in 1914 dollars.') American spending exceeded only Austria-Hungary, which had expended a little more than $318,000.  The immediate result of these expenditures could be seen in the forces ready to be placed into the field, with the necessary pilots and mechanics to operate them. France began the war with about 140 aircraft apportioned among twenty-one squadrons. There was a general reserve of slightly smaller size, made up in part of civilian aircraft attached for duty. Approximately 220 pilots were on hand.’  Britain’s Royal Flying Corps had about 180 aircraft of which approximately one-half were unfit for service. There were just over one hundred pilots available to fly the aircraft that were fit. The Royal Naval Air Service had fifty aircraft and about forty pilots.’  In the East, Imperial Russia had almost 250 aircraft spread across that great country, along with fourteen dirigibles