ty by means of its unparalleled industrial capacity, its unrestricted fund- ing, and the limitless reservoir of energy that the decade-long Depression had dammed up. The United States was fortunate that its aviation engineers, managers, and entrepreneurs had been enthusiasts who somehow kept their small companies going despite the economic doldrums. Even the “big” names in American aviation, such as Boeing, Curtiss, Douglas, Grumman, Lockheed, and Martin, were relatively small, with a few million dollars in capitalization and only a few hundred or a few thousand workers at the start of the war. They expanded quickly, with Lockheed, for example, going  True Air Superiority, Then Absolute Air Supremacy, 1944-45 255  from about 3,000 in 1939 to 91,000 by 1943.‘ What was surprising was the manner in which small older firms and brand new firms just entering the market place grew and prospered. Smaller older firms such as Aeronca, Piper, Waco, and others made invaluable contri- butions, while new firms such as McDonnell and Northrop would prove to be major assets to the industry.  None of it could have happened without the human factor. People flocked to work in the aircraft industry, reveling in the sheer pleasure of having a worthwhile job at a good wage in a good cause. The social ramifications were enormous, with minorities and women entering the work force in unparalleled numbers. Nor were they confined to unskilled jobs; instead, training programs enfranchised them with skills never before open to them. Production levels in all arms soared to new heights as a result, but nowhere more than in the aviation industry, which reached a peak in 1944 with a rate of 100,000 aircraft per year, and, (slightly reduced because of cancellations) an actual output of 96,000. In the course of the war, the United States would build 325,000 aircraft of all types. The Ford Motor Company had been slow to come to war work, but by 1945, the Willow Run bomber plant was turning out one Cons