of the United States to fight tit-for-tat slogan warfare. He was seeking to elicit a Pavlovian response from a tough North Vietnamese government that was com- posed in large part of intellectual revolutionaries who had been suc- cessful in their thirty-year struggle against both the Japanese and the French. In the end, it would be the Vietnamese ringing the bell, with the United States salivating at the prospect of peace.  McNamara had erroneously assumed that North Vietnam was a mere pawn of Red China, and he sought to avoid the possibility of war with China by pretending to deal only with his fictional insur- rection in South Vietnam. War with China was a genuine concern for President Lyndon B. Johnson, as well. Unfortunately, neither man ever assessed the Red Chinese means or intentions; had they done so, they would have learned that war on behalf of Red China’s hated enemy, the Vietnamese, was unlikely in the extreme. Further, they completely missed the point that in his determination to unite Vietnam under his own regime, Ho Chi Minh would fight China as readily as he fought the French and the United States.  McNamara’s entire concept was based on an appalling ignorance of the quality of the North Vietnamese people and their battle-hard- ened leaders. Neither he nor any member of his staff was personal- ly familiar with the Vietnamese culture, and none had learned any- thing of the psychology of the enemy. Worst of all, safe in the con- fines of their air-conditioned Washington offices, none of them had any idea of the ruthless determination and the skill with which the North Vietnamese had fought and would fight. The concept of “teaching” the North Vietnamese was a snobbish, condescending  The Cold War, 1963-73 325  power play that might have worked in the automobile industry from which McNamara came, but was totally inappropriate for conducting a war against a formidable enemy. Ironically, the North Vietnamese leaders had incisive insight into American cultur