e 1914 Schneider Trophy winner, and car- ried a pilot and some twenty-pound bombs at ninety-three miles per hour. Grey could not find his target and bombed the Cologne rail- way station instead. Marix demonstrated the qualities that later led him to become an air vice marshal by not only finding Diisseldorf, but from six hundred feet making a direct hit on the shed housing the Zeppelin L 9, destroying both. His aircraft was damaged by ground fire, and he had to force land thirty miles from Antwerp.    102 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  After extensive planning by no less a personality than Noel Pemberton Billing, on November 21, 1914, three Avro 504s flew from Belfort, France (where the factory had shipped them, still in packing crates), to the Zeppelin sheds at Friedrichshafen, each one carrying four twenty-pound Cooper bombs. Led by Squadron Commander E. F. Briggs, the tiny biplanes flew 125 miles—an extreme distance in those days—to drop their bombs on the sheds and factory with great success. Briggs was shot down over the target and roughly handled by the local population, another glimpse into the sad future.  On Christmas Day, 1914, a fourth raid, by seven Short seaplanes against the Zeppelin sheds at Cuxhaven, failed when the target was not found. Their raid had totally unexpected results, however, for it enabled the guiding spirit of the German Zeppelin fleet, Peter Strasser, to prevail upon the Chief of the Naval Staff, Admiral Hugo von Pohl, to obtain permission from the Kaiser to allow the British Isles to be bombed.  These beginning raids were the start of strategic bombing, but not the start of strategic bombing campaigns, which would fall to Germany to begin. They have been described in some detail not so much because of their intrinsic importance, but because they reveal the basic problem that has always confounded advocates of air power. Throughout most of its history the expectation of results from the application of air power has been vast