43 when the American Consolidated B-24 became available in quantity that it was able to establish patrol patterns that could control the vital areas of the North Atlantic. Germany not only began the war with a small number of submarines, it never established the proper degree of cooperation between the Luftwaffe and the U-boat service, nor did it anticipate the Allies being able to use aircraft so effectively. Of all the lessons not learned in World War I, the effectiveness of air- craft against submarine was perhaps the most important.  In Germany, prewar emphasis had been on the airships that were intended for use as reconnaissance over the North Sea. Seaplanes were obtained by the simple means of installing floats on existing landplane types. When war came, the need became obvious, and a great number of naval air bases were created; these became home to both seaplanes and the relatively few flying boats that were acquired. The lightning-like raids of British aircraft against the Zeppelin sheds led to the establishment of defense units. The German Naval Air Service was also quick to undertake air raids against Great Britain.  In time the Germans developed excellent seaplanes that could be used for reconnaissance and air combat. One of these, the Hansa- Brandenburg W 12, designed by Ernst Heinkel of World War II fame, was particularly effective against the British flying boats, wreaking havoc on them wherever they were found. One of the units using the W 12 flew out of Zeebrugge, and was led by First Lieutenant Friedrich Christiansen. Christiansen, who had twenty- one victories and had won the Pour le Mérite, also shot down a British airship and sank a British submarine. Between the wars, he captained the gigantic Dornier Do-X, then went on to become a general in the Luftwaffe.  Germany, perhaps more than any other nation, forgot its hard- earned naval air-warfare experience learned in World War I, and suffered for it greatly during World War II. This probably came