l shipping. It built slowly but with increasing ferocity until it reached a decisive crescendo on September 15—now celebrated as Battle of Britain Day in the United Kingdom—before settling down into a grueling, deadly, but essen- tially ineffective night-bombing campaign that lasted until May 1941.  As bloody as the Battle of Britain would be, the importance and influence of air power in 1940 was made obvious by Adolf Hitler in his Directive No. 17 of August 1. In it he stated that the destruction of the Royal Air Force had first priority in defeating Britain, and that he reserved for himself the decision to conduct “terror bombing.” The tenor of the directive was dictated in part by the German Navy’s insistence that any invasion of Britain was dependent upon securing air superiority to the extent that the Royal Navy could not intervene in the cross-Channel landing. The most competent of Hitler’s close military advisors, General Alfred Jodl, agreed with this view.  Directive No. 17 thus provided, not by accident, an impossible cri- terion. Given the strength of the Royal Navy, and the fact that it would be hurled into the battle at whatever cost, there was no way to prevent its intervention. The German Navy was so badly weakened in the Norwegian campaign that it would scarcely have made an impression on the Royal Navy, and it was too much to ask of the Luftwaffe, even if it had by some means been able to defeat the Royal Air Force.  Although he could not admit it, the directive revealed Hitler’s true feelings. He dreaded the thought of a cross-Channel invasion, with all the things that could go wrong, from the thundering guns of the Royal Navy to unseasonable weather that would cut the German invasion forces off from reinforcements. As Hitler himself later remarked, he was a lion on land and a lamb on water.  Up to this point in the war, the Germans had pulled off one sur- prise after another, keeping their enemies off balance and winning fairly inexpensive victorie