Jones, in 1974.  Jones was a visionary leader who also had a sure political instinct. He introduced significant organizational changes not only within    Post World War IT Middle-East Conflicts, Terror, and the Modern Air War 353  the Air Force, but later, as two-term Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS), in other services, and in NATO. Many of his concepts were incorporated into the important Goldwater-Nichols Act of 1987 that increased the power of the JCS and placed greater war- making capability in the hands of theater commanders.  Jones also had a technical bent, and championed the develop- ment of airborne command and control aircraft and precision-guid- ed munitions. He thus started the transition from the typical bomber-oriented air force to an air force of the space age, a critical factor whose fruits would first be realized in the Persian Gulf War.  Jones changed the climate of the Air Staff so much that he was suc- ceeded as Chief by General Lew Allen Jr., a scientist with a doctorate in nuclear physics. Allen advocated the development of cruise mis- siles, satellite programs, and such new weapons as the McDonnell Douglas F-15, General Dynamics F-16, and Rockwell B-1B.  The cycle of change was completed in 1982, when a veteran fight- er pilot, the well-liked General Charles A. Gabriel, became Chief of Staff. From that point on, the Air Force became increasingly a “fighter air force” in contrast to its earlier years. Every Chief of Staff who followed Gabriel came from the fighter-pilot community.  It was perhaps inevitable that the revolution in planning and equipping for modern war should come from that community. The Strategic Air Command had been the dominant factor for years and had done its job perfectly by deterring war. As time passed, however, SAC became rigid and doctrinaire and thus far less likely to produce the next generation of planners who would be receptive to the advent of space-related weaponry and to new ideas in management. Had t