nd cargo. This was, at last, a prac- tical airship, and Germany began to become very partial to Zeppelins, so much so that when a storm wrecked LZ-4, there was a spontaneous outpouring of sympathy and six million marks in con- tributions. More important, the German Army agreed to acquire two airships, for an additional 2.5 million marks. This began a long and ill-fated relationship between the German military and the Zeppelin, one which sustained the Zeppelin factory, but which cost Germany a great deal of resources that it could ill afford.  The Zeppelin firm was well and truly launched, and despite a continuing series of crashes, in the coming years it would operate a highly successful passenger airship line, Deutsche Luftschiffahrts- Aktien-Gesellschaft (German Airship Transport Company). Usually called Delag for short, the company began operations on November 16, 1909, only to encounter difficulty with three more crashes. It was sustained by German Army financing, in return for which the com- pany trained military airship crews. This military/industrial support enabled Zeppelin to persevere. He retained the admiration and    26 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  affection of the German public so that by 1911 he could put LZ-10 in service as the Schwaben. The following year, three more Zeppelins joined the Delag fleet, including the Viktoria Luise, Hansa, and Sachsen. The airline flew more than 100,000 miles, carrying 37,500 passengers, and despite several crashes, had no fatalities.  In the meantime, both the Imperial German Army and Navy were acquiring Zeppelins that were presumed to have a formidable mili- tary air-power capability, and these would have a definite influence on history.  The Heavier-Than-Air Flying Machine  The internal combustion engine also paved the way for the first flying machine. Unlike the dirigible, the heavier-than-air flying machine proved to be an insoluble problem to everyone but the inimitable Wright brothers of Dayton, Ohio.