installing offensive weapons in Cuba, reports that Soviet officials persistently denied, saying that they were installing only defensive weapons in their Caribbean client’s homeland.  Cuba was attractive to the Soviet Union, for it offered a conduit for operations into Central and South America. After Fidel Castro had seized power in January 1959, he began to move openly toward the Soviet sphere of influence. The situation became worse when President John F. Kennedy supported the abortive Bay of Pigs inva- sion of Cuba by Cuban exile counterrevolutionaries in April 1961.  By 1962, the Soviet Union was well on the way to turning Cuba, only ninety miles from the United States mainland, into an advance base in the Western Hemisphere, supplying Mobile Medium-Range Ballistic Missiles (MMRBM), IRBMs, and Ilyushin [I-28 bombers. Defensive weapons were also supplied, including SA-2 surface-to-air (SAM) missiles and more than fifty MiG fighters.  On October 14, 1962, two expert U-2 pilots of the 4080th Strategic Reconnaissance Wing, Majors Richard S. Heyser and Rudolf Anderson Jr., brought back conclusive evidence that the Soviet Union was build- ing offensive missile sites in the San Crist6bal area. Follow-up flights revealed that sites for both 1,000-mile-range MRBM and 2,000-mile- range IRBM were being prepared. The assembly of the [I-28 bombers was clearly in progress. It was estimated that within two weeks, the Soviet Union would have a minimum of two dozen missiles capable of reaching every heavily populated area in the Western Hemisphere.  President Kennedy was faced with a series of problems, beginning with finding some way to force the removal of the Soviet offensive capability without unleashing World War III and without repeating the Bay of Pigs fiasco. The full array of military options was consid- ered, from a large-scale air attack taking out missiles, bombers, and other weapons in a single massive strike to a “surgical strike” aimed at eliminating only key ins