a fleet of com- bat-capable Zeppelins which would conduct the world’s first strategic bombing campaign.  Santos-Dumont was a wealthy Brazilian whose indulgent father sent him at the age of eighteen to Paris to be educated, providing $500,000 to ensure that it was a liberal education. Although small in stature and somewhat reserved in personality, Santos-Dumont became a popular figure in French society. He had a serious side, however, and was dedicated to the idea of flight. No dilettante, he learned the lighter-than-air business in more than a hundred bal- loon flights.  The young Brazilian designed and had built a series of airships tailored to his size and taste. His first was eighty-two and one-half feet long, and was capable of lifting only 450 pounds with its 6,345 cubic feet of hydrogen. But that was enough to get the 110-pound Santos-Dumont and his two-cylinder De Dion three-and-one-half- horsepower internal combustion engine airborne, albeit briefly.  Santos-Dumont went on to construct nine more dirigibles, and flew them himself, above, and on one occasion, into, the rooftops of Paris. The crash took place with his No. 5, and left the gallant Santos-Dumont to be rescued from a lightwell of the Trocadero Hotel, to the joy of his adoring Parisian audience. It was his No. 9 that gained him the most fame, however, for it was a personal run- about that he used to cruise the boulevards, dropping in on his favorite spots for a drink or dinner and parking his airship on the sidewalks as casually as modern Parisians do their Citroéns.  Increasingly fascinated with heavier-than-air flight, however, Santos-Dumont would soon lead Europe in that field as well.  There were others who advanced the idea of the dirigible, includ- ing: Paul and Pierre Lebaudy, who created the first semi-rigid air- craft; Thomas Baldwin, who followed Santos-Dumont’s design lead; and Walter Wellman, whose adventures in the large dirigible America were thrilling but never quite successful.  In m