ary 1965, and by June there had been a complete inversion of tactical and strategic air power by the United States. In that month, Strategic Air Command B-52s began flying tactical bombing missions in Operation Arc Light, operating first from Andersen Air Base, Guam, and later also from U Tapao Royal Thai Air Force Base in Thailand. Arc Light B-52s dropped their thunderous loads of bombs on enemy bases and supply lines in South Vietnam and ultimately became useful in close air support.  The Cold War, 1963-73 331  They were described as the most feared weapon of the war by cap- tured Viet Cong, for the first notice of their presence was the explo- sion of bombs, the B-52s flying too high to be seen or heard. Unfortunately, this was true only when there happened to be Viet Cong in the target area. All too often, warned by the incredible information network that the Viet Cong possessed, the bombs just cratered jungle areas empty of all enemy troops.  While the strategic bombers were flying tactical missions in the South, tactical bombers, Republic F-105s and later McDonnell F-4s, along with Navy attack aircraft, were flying Rolling Thunder’s strate- gic missions against North Vietnam. An essential new role devel- oped for the suppression of enemy air defenses, and a new breed of combat crew emerged to fly the “Iron Hand” and “Wild Weasel” mis- sions to seek out and defeat the enemy SAM sites.  Whatever momentum Rolling Thunder had begun to gather was brought to a screeching stop when President Johnson declared a bombing halt from December 24, 1965, to January 31, 1966, to include both Christmas and Tet holiday periods. He had previously declared the first bombing halt in May, in the hopes that it signaled United States willingness to negotiate with the North Vietnamese. The invariable North Vietnamese reaction to a bombing halt was to accelerate repairs to bomb damage and to increase the flow of men and goods to the South as much as possible.  The next phase of Rolling