e its client states to join in. Defensively, preliminary steps were taken to form what eventually became the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).  Curiously, considering the massive importance that can be imput- ed to the influence of air power on the events leading up to and during World War II, air power had virtually no influence in the later gigantic Soviet expansion, other than being an integral part of Stalin’s massive forces. The reason was simple. The Western Allies, weary of war, had demobilized at an incredible rate, and no longer possessed a significant amount of air power. There remained only    The Cold War, 1945-62 289  the threat of atomic retaliation, based on the sole possession of nuclear weapons and their delivery system by the United States. Fortunately, the threat was sufficient to deter the Soviet Union in the early years of the Cold War from even more predatory aggression, for in reality, the actu- al nuclear capability of the United States was limited.  The Demand for Demobilization  The United States had not been at war as long as its Allies had, nor had it suffered nearly as much in terms of casualties and physi- cal damage. The war had in fact pulled the United States at last from the grip of the Great Depression, and the country was burst- ing with both a pent-up demand for consumer goods, and the banked wherewithal to buy them. Two terrible enemies had been defeated, and the Soviet Union had been presented since December 7, 1941, as a good, loyal ally, with governmental and social institutions not unlike those of the United States. Stalin’s image as an implacable tyrant had been smoothed over into one of an amiable “Uncle Joe,” still a dictator, but one who had been prop- erly contained by the agreements made at Yalta and Potsdam.  There was therefore tremendous public demand for all troops to be brought home and demobilized as soon as possible. This public outcry was translated into congressional action, and there began the greate