ighly effec- tive air-defense system.  The Arab forces could probably have completely overrun the state of Israel within a few days, but were held back by Sadat’s strat- egy of just taking a strip of the Sinai and holding it. Even so, the Israeli High Command had vastly underestimated its requirements for ammunition and for aircraft losses and was rapidly approaching the dreaded “red-line,” the point where there were no longer suffi- cient supplies and ammunition to keep on fighting.  Israel turned to the United States, and after much argument, suc- ceeded in obtaining an airlift of supplies that eventually helped it turn the tide. Implicit in Israel’s demand for assistance was the threat to use its nuclear weapons if all else failed.  The American decision to provide an airlift signaled to the world its support of Israel, while its Lockheed C-5s and C-141s brought in  Post World War II Middle-East Conflicts, Terror, and the Modern Air War 349  lifesaving amounts of ammunition and supplies. This assistance enabled Israel to reverse the tide of the war by an inversion of tac- tics. In the past, Israeli aircraft had always cleared the way for Israeli armor. The reverse was now true. Israeli armor lashed out to destroy the Egyptian SAM missile batteries, thus allowing the Israeli Air Force to conduct the kind of campaign it preferred against Egyptian armor and entrenched positions.  Amid the clamor of war, the threat of ultimate air power manifest- ed itself twice. The first was Israel’s threat to use nuclear weapons that had two great effects. It let it be known (allegedly through a known Russian mole in Israeli intelligence) that it intended to use nuclear weapons against Damascus if the Syrian attack was not halted, and for otherwise inexplicable reasons, the Syrian forces retreated. Israel’s threat was also made known to Washington, and is considered by many historians to be the vital factor in expediting the airlift that fol- lowed.  The second near-instance of us