e was the aerial relief of Khe Sahn. The brilliant North Vietnamese defense minister, General Vo Nguyen Giap, planned to surround the base. His purpose was to effect a second Dien Bien Phu, the 1954 bat- tle that saw the defeat of the French in Vietnam. Air power helped turn his plans into a costly defeat. The second was helping suppress the bloody military blunder that was the abortive Tet Offensive of 1968, a battle that quite literally wiped out Viet Cong capability for the rest of the war. The third was the magnificent effort in which air power was rapidly recalled back into the theater, helping to stop the contro- versial March 1972 “Easter Offensive” of the North Vietnamese regu- lar army. The fourth was the most important, the final, definite defeat administered by air power to the North Vietnamese during the eleven- day bombing campaign of December 1972.  In short, air power had a profound influence on history in the Vietnam War, by preventing the outright military defeat that would have occurred in its absence. There is a genuine possibility that if air power had been applied with a stronger political will from the start of the war, it could have done more than prevent military defeat—it might have actually won the war. What it could not do, however, was prevent the shameful political defeat that was administered to the United States by North Vietnam in the course of negotiations. The United States abandoned the Republic of Vietnam to defend itself against the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in January 1973. The Republic of Vietnam, lacking United States air power, was no longer able to do so and succumbed to a final attack in the spring of 1975.  The Slow Slide to Involvement  It has happened more than once that air power has influenced history not so much by what it could do, but by what politicians thought it could do. It may be said that the United States aerial involvement in the Vietnam War came about because American gov- ernmental officials felt secu