ent), but in no case caused the popu­ lation to rise up against the regime.10 The populations of Germany and Japan suffered vastly worse punishment-they were fire bombed! Nearly 1 percent of each country's population was killed and 20 percent made home­ less; yet there was no public pressure on either government to surrender. If modem nation-states can withstand so much, they will not give in under the relatively bloodless harassment envisioned by today's strategic bomb­ ing advocates. ll Strategic bombing advocates say that PGMs bolster coercive strategies based on risk by enabling the coercer to tum punishment on and off at will, as well as to modulate it in fine increments. PGMs permit the coercer to de­ stroy a designated fraction of a critical economic system, such as power, fuel, or telecommunications, as an indicator of capability to destroy the en­ tire system if concessions are not made.12 They claim that knocking out power generation with PGMs has the additional advantage that only a few critical components need be attacked, enabling the coercer to hold out the promise of speedy restoration as a carrot. Said Warden, "Assistance with re­ pair of electric power can take place quickly-and is very desirable as soon as the Iraqi government adheres to Coalition terms.fl13 Even if damage can be controlled as finely as advocates claim, however, PGMs do nothing to remedy the inherent weaknesses of risk-based coercive strategies. Given the limited destructiveness of conventional weapons, even with PGMs, risk strategies amount to nothing more than slower and weaker punishment campaigns. Such strategies are generally used by coercers that are politically constrained from inflicting maximum punishment, aDd are thus incredible. After the Gulf War, Iraqi officials said that they had taken U.s. strategic air strikes as evidence that there would be no extensive bom- 10 Thomas E. Griffith Jr., Strategic Attack of National Electrical Systems (Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala.: Sc