h to resist indefinitely.106 In summer 1943 military vulnerability increased to medium. Tunisia fell in June; the Allies invaded Sicily in July and Italy in September; and Mus足 solini's government collapsed. Also in July, Germany's Kursk offensive failed, and in August the Soviets began a counteroffensive that started to roll the Wehrmacht back, inflicting heavy losses. Given their manpower shortage and the immense width of the front, the Germans could not defend any line in sufficient strength to check the Soviet advance completely. At the same time, Allied invasion of France was becoming an increasingly likely possibility. Although current positions could not be held, Germany still retained sub足 stantial attrition capabilities, which could be increased by further mobiliza足 tion of Germany's economy and society. German forces could still exact a heavy toll on the enemy for taking each measure of territory. The Wehrmacht reckoned that between 1 September 1943 and 1 January 1944 the Soviet losses in killed, disabled and POWs amounted to 1.2 million men compared to 243,743 for the Germans. Industrial output was rising, providing enough tanks and weapons to equip new divisions for the western front and replace some of the losses in the Soviet Union.107 The success of this attrition strategy was by no means assured, however, because the USSR was pulling far ahead of Germany in all major categories of military power, and the huge produc足 tive capacity of the Allies would be added. Thus, whereas it might still be possible for Germany to achieve a military stalemate, this was not a foregone conclusion. Occupation of Germany itself had to be considered a growing possibility, although the Soviets were still over 550 miles from Berlin. In m,id-1944, military vulnerability increased to high. In July the Allies broke through the German lines encircling the Normandy beachhead, and at the same time the Red Army launched a massive offensive in Belorussia. These two offensives dest