rman industrial sectors depended instead of hitting isolated industrial plants.lO War demands required 17 mil­ lion Germans to move out of civilian pursuits and production and into mil­ itary-related activities, forcing the remainder of the economy to function with reduced labor and other resources. Therefore, the German industrial economy was stretched 60 taut that destruction of a few carefully selected nodes by air attack might snap its strained strands. The resulting general economic collapse would not only ruin Germany's ability to produce war materiel but even more immediately produce widespread social disruption that would destroy German morale and possibly topple the state. To cause a general collapse of the economy by hitting just a few targets, the key was to destroy targets that affected both the war effort and civilian welfare. The target priorities recommended in AWPD-1 were the German air force (aircraft factories, aluminum and magnesium plants), followed by the electric power grid, the transportation network (rail, inland waterways, and highways), and the petroleum industry. The German air force was seen not as a final objective but as a preliminary requirement to clear the way for attacks on the decisive targets. Of these, electric power had top priority because it was "vital to the German war ef­ fort, and ... highly important to civil life." Loss of electricity-generating capability would affect weapons manufacturing, cold storage of food, man­ ufacture of warm clothing, and transportation within cities. National trans­ portation, especially of primary resources, came next: "In addition to the effect upon war industry, crippling the German transportation system would bring severe suffering to the German people by denying them the necessary coal for heating. The winters in Germany are cold and clothing is 10 The basic aim of AWPD-l was "the application of air power for the breakdown of the in­ dustrial and economic structure of Germany. This concept