e.82 The political elite was divided into four main parts: Hitler, the Nazi civilian leadership, the military leadership, and the anti­ Nazi resistance. Germany was governed by a revolutionary one-party sys­ tem, which subjugated the major elites and political forces in German society (Junkers, industrialists, the military, the Catholic church, Social Democrats, and Communists) in order to maintain its own power and ad­ vance the goals of National Socialism. The Nazi system of government was based on the leadership principle. Each minister was personally responsible to Hitler; there was no collective cabinet responsibility, and consultation be­ tween ministries to coordinate policy was frowned upon. As a result, far from being monolithic, the Third Reich was in reality a battleground for powerful quasi-feudal interest groups, all struggling for influence, which Hitler was able to playoff one against another to maintain and expand his own authority.83 Hitler was undoubtedly the central decision maker, but his control over state policy fluctuated. After his ascendancy over the armed forces was firmly established in February 1938, there were no institutional constraints on his exercise of power and no decision of any significance could be taken without his approval. In essence, his power was absolute. After 1943, how­ ever, Hitler's rule began to disintegrate. As long as he was alive, there was no question of replacing him, but his single-handed control of German pol­ icy gradually eroded. The transition to total war vastly increased the num­ ber of decisions requiring the fuhrer's authority while Hitler's physical condition deteriorated. As events accelerated, Hitler involved himself in policies at his own discretion-that is, impulsively and spasmodically. As a result, the autonomy of other decision-making groups increased, especially regarding the implementation of policies. By the last months of the war, Hitler's control had eroded to the point where even his direct