. Similarly; Major General Don­ ald Wilson, another ACTS lecturer, also stressed that the anticipated economic disintegration would disrupt the daily routine of the civil population and in so doing result in defeatism "to such an extent that public clamor would force the government to sue for peace." Quoted in Larry J. Bidinian, Combined Allied Bombing Offensive against the German Civilian, 1942-1945 (Lawrence, Kans: Coronado Press, 1976), p. 21. By contrast, denial played a relatively minor role in these industrial web plans. Although destruction of the economy would naturally af­ fect military production, nowhere did these plans state what level of decline in fighting power or production would be sufficient to weaken the Wehrmacht fatally, or indeed, how strong the Wehrmacht actually was. This lack of analysis suggests lack of interest.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 94 --- Gennany, 1942-1945 ers in particular." They did not adopt incendiary bombing tactics in earnest, however, until early 1942.14 In March 1942 the target set for Douhet-style in­ cendiary bombing of cities was established. Fifty-eight major cities with population over a hundred thousand would be destroyed in four to six months. IS RAF planners declared that to break German morale, "we must achieve two things: first, we must make [German towns] physically unin­ habitable and, secondly, we must make the people conscious of constant personal danger. The immediate aim is therefore two-fold, namely to pro­ duce: (i) destruction; and (ii) the fear of death."16 Sir Arthur Harris, chief of the RAF Bomber Command, and other British decision makers had more concrete expectations from this bombing than is indicated in secondary sources. In November 1942 the Chief of the Air Staff, Sir Charles Portal, laid bare the assumed effects of dropping 1.250 million tons of bombs on German towns: (i) the destruction of 6,000,000 German dwellings, with a proportionate de­ struction of industrial buildings, source