late with outcomes, together with detailed case studies of five of the most important instances (Japan 1945, Germany 1945, Korea 1953, Vietnam 1965-1968 and 1972, and Iraq 1991) to determine whether the causal dy­ namics in specific cases match those expected by the theory.25 The evidence shows that it is the threat of military failure, which I call de­ nial, and not threats to civilians, which we may call punishment, which pro­ vides the critical leverage in conventional coercion. Although nuclear weapons can make punishment the critical factor, in conventional conflicts even highly capable assailants often cannot threaten or inflict enough pain to coerce successfully. Conventional munitions have limited destructive power, and the modern nation-state is not a delicate mechanism that can easily be brought to the point of collapse. Moreover, governments are often willing to countenance considerable civilian punishment to achieve impor­ tant territorial aims. Consequently, coercion based on punishing civilians rarely succeeds. The key to success in conventional coercion is not punishment but denial, that is, the ability to thwart the target state's military strategy for controlling the objectives in dispute. To succeed the coercer must undermine the target state's confidence in its own military strategy. Precisely what capabilities must be denied to the target depends on the coercer's objectives. Thus, de­ nial may require stopping the opponent from either gaining or holding terri­ tory, depending on whether the threatening assailant's goal is to prevent an attack, stop an ongoing attack, or force territorial concessions. 26 Once a state is persuaded that objectives cannot be achieved, levels of costs that were bearable as long as there was a chance of success become intolerable. The target then concedes in order to avoid suffering further losses to no purpose. Nuclear coercion is different, because nuclear weapons have nearly un­ limited capacity to do harm. No state