lian refugees to cross the Allied lines. ISS The final surrender in May indicates that the Western Allies would not have been cooperative in any event. When the German Chief of Staff, Gen­ eral JodI arrived at Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expeditionary Forces on 6 May, his goal was to continue to play for time to permit thousands of Ger­ mans to withdraw westward and thus evade captivity and death at the hands of the Soviet forces. A total of 1.2 million German soldiers were still fighting their way westward out of Soviet encirclement as were many thou­ sand civilians, whose withdrawal to the west, JodI maintained, would help the United States and Great Britain deal with the Soviet Union. In response, Eisenhower's chief of staff, General Walter Bedell Smith told JodI: "You will have to deal with the Russians alone .... Our lines will be closed even to in­ dividual German soldiers and civilians. I don't understand why you don't want to surrender to our Russian Allies." The best JodI could get was forty­ eight hours until the western lines closed, which is why hostilities formally ceased two days later at midnight on 9 May.ls6 As this account makes clear, Germany's failure to surrender was not irra­ tional in terms of expected costs and benefits. Given expectations of truly brutal Soviet occupation, largely precipitated by Germany's own callous dis­ regard for human life and genocidal policies earlier in the war on the eastern front, avoiding this result provided enormous benefits and was worth the marginal costs of a few months of continued resistance. Since a unilateral surrender to the West would have sealed Germany's borders and so cut off all significant refugee movement, this too was not in Germany's interest. The most important lesson to draw from this case is that, although Ger­ many's failure to surrender in March 1945 is inconsistent with the parsi- 154 Doenitz message to Kaufmann, 30 April 1945 in Doenitz, Memoirs, p. 437. 155 Kecskemeti, Strategic Surrende