ne of these weapons was used against any other target types or that all the tank and APC kills were due to PGMs, the true rate may be either higher or lower.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 159 --- Bombing to Win Whereas tactical air power has long supported friendly ground opera­ tions, PGMs have made it possible to conduct a sustained independent air attrition offensive against a stationary, dug-in ground force and substan­ tially destroy it.34 That is not to say that air power can coerce by itself; it can­ not drive the enemy off disputed territory or occupy the territory itself, but it can do most of the work, leaving friendly ground forces to mop up. Tacti­ cal air power has always been the weaker member of the theater combined arms team; now it is the stronger.35 In short, strategic bombing advocates have it exactly backward. PGMs have done nothing to enhance the coercive strength of strategic air power. Punishment, risk, and decapitation strategies had little merit before PGMs, and they have little merit now. Denial remains the most effective coercive air strategy, and PGMs have further increased the superiority of theater air power over strategic bombing.36 WHY STRATEGIC BOMBING PERSISTS If strategic bombing doesn't work, why does it persist? Coercers have demonstrated a remarkably consistent tendency toward overreliance on strategic bombing in general and punishment strategies in particular. Fur­ ther, confidence in the efficacy of pUnishment frequently persists despite disconfirming evidence. The most egregious example was the continued British fire-bombing of German cities throughout World War II. British lead­ ers found ways to believe that German citizens were more squeamish than their own even after years of terror bombing produced no significant re­ sults. In the Pacific the United States fire-bombed smaller and smaller Japanese cities after burning the largest ones had no discernible effect. In Korea the United States waged three separate pUnis