nst Hitler. During 1943, they 119 Bullock, Hitler and Stalin, p. 889. 120 Armstrong, Unconditional Surrender, p. 113. 121 Erich von Manstein, Lost Victories (New York: Methuen, 1958), p. 367; Interview with Kesselring in Armstrong, Unconditional Surrender, p. 118; Erwin Rommel, The Rommel Papers, ed. B. H. Liddell Hart (New York: Harcourt, Brace, 1953), p. 427.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 133 --- Bombing to Win made several attempts to kill him, including placing a bomb on Hitler's plane which failed to explode. Several senior generals were approached for support but turned the plotters down at this stage.122 Thus, some senior gen­ erals were searching for an alternative to continuing the war, but they had not yet adopted a surrender policy. Military confidence about the ability to defend the homeland was rad­ ically undermined in summer 1944, leading a number of conservative generals to a shift to limited surrender. The more unavoidable a two-front war became, the more did significant portions of the army leadership, particularly in the west, join the anti-Hitler resistance. By March 1944 Rommel, Speidel, Gunther Blumentritt (chief of operations), von Kluge, and von Rundstedt began to plan for an armistice. They meant not to sur­ render unconditionally but to negotiate a settlement with the west so that the eastern front could be held. Field Marshal von Kluge in his suicide letter in late July 1944 warned Hitler: "Make up your mind to end the war. The German people have borne such untold suffering that it is time to put an end to this frightfulness. There must be ways to attain this end, and above all, to prevent the Reich from falling under the Bolshevist heel.,,123 Rommel told his son shortly before his suicide: "Our enemy in the East is so terrible that every other consideration has to give way before it. If he succeeds in overrunning Europe, even only temporarily, it will be the end of everything which has made life appear worth living.,,124 Still, th