ter­ ritory, but would also earn the coercer a reputation for unparalleled barbarism.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 21 --- Explaining Military Coercion These propositions are based on observations of the decision-making processes of modern nation-states and of how the industrial revolution has affected their powers of resistance. The rise of nationalism, industrializa­ tion, and bureaucratization have profoundly altered the abilities of modern states to limit the damage the coercer can inflict, to minimize the costs of damage suffered, and to endure costs that cannot be avoided. Because of the limited destructiveness of conventional weapons, outcomes of conven­ tional coercion are determined mainly by the target state's powers of resis­ tance, which explains why pUnishment and risk strategies generally fail, why denial strategies often succeed, and why success tends to come later than expected. Nuclear coercion works the other way: nuclear destructive­ ness overwhelms any possible resistance. Why Conventional Punishment Rarely Succeeds Punishment strategies seek to inflict enough pain on enemy civilians to overwhelm their territorial interests in the dispute. The hope is either that the government will concede or the population will revolt. Punishment strategies do not, however, usually offer significant coercive leverage, for six reasons. First, the territorial stakes in coercive disputes are often very im­ portant for either national security or nationalist reasons. As a result, states involved in coercive disputes are often willing to accept high costs, includ­ ing civilian suffering, to achieve their objectives. Punishment can succeed when the target state has only minor interests at stake in the dispute, but these successes are likely to be rare because the coercer is li~ely also to have only low interests at stake and so is easily deterred from issuing a coercive threat. Thus, successful coercion based on punishment normally requires the conjunction of