he end of the Cold War and the rise of potential regional hegemons are shifting national security policy away from deterring pre足 dictable threats toward responding to unpredictable threats after they emerge, making questions about how to compel states to alter their behav足 ior more central in international politics. This trend is also apparent in the growing role of air power in U.s. military strategy. As the American public's willingness to bear military costs declines, the role of air power in overseas conflicts is increasing because it can project force more rapidly and with less risk than land power and more formidably than naval power. In Iraq and in Bosnia the first question in debates over American intervention has been, 2 There have been three main cycles of policy advocacy. The first, between World Wars I and II, was dominated by advocates and critics of independent air operations. Advocates in足 cluded J. F. C. Fuller, The Reformation of War (New York: Dutton, 1923); B. H. Liddell Hart, Paris or the Future of War (London: Kegan Paul, 1925); and Giulio Douhet, Command of the Air, trans. Dino Ferrari (New York: Coward-McCann, 1942). More critical of independent air op足 erations is John C. Slessor, Air Power and Armies (London: Oxford University Press, 1936).' The second, after World War II, centered on how to respond to potential Soviet nuclear blackmail: Hans Speier, "Soviet Atomic Blackmail and the North Atlantic Alliance," World Politics 9, no. 3 (1957): 307-28; Paul Nitze, "Atoms, Strategy, and Policy," Foreign Affairs 34 Ganuary 1956): 187---98; and Arnold 1. Horelick and Myron Rush, Strategic Power and Soviet Foreign Policy (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1966). The last occurred during the Vietnam War: e.g., the exchange between Colin S. Gray, "What Rand Hath Wrought," Foreign Policy, no. 4 (Fall 1971): 111-29, and Bernard Brodie, "Why Were We So (Strategically) Wrong?" Foreign Policy, no. 5 (Winter 1971-72): 151-87.  File: --- pape_coercion.pd