y a breakdown in any part of this complex interlocked organiza­ tion must seriously influence the conduct of war by that nation, and greatly interfere with the social welfare and morale of its nationals .... The applica­ tion of the additional pressure necessary to cause a breakdown-a collapse­ of this industrial machine ... is the maximum contribution of which an air 16 Thomas A. Fabyanic, Strategic Air Attack in the United States Air Force: A Case Study, Air University Report no. 5899 (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: U.s. Air Force, April 1976). 17 Michael S. Sherry, The Rise of American Air Power: The Creation of Armageddon (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1987), p. 58. 18 On the historical debate, see Ronald Schaffer, Wings of Judgment: American Bombing in World War II (New York: Oxford University Press, 1985), chap. 2, and Conrad C. Crane, "Evo­ lution of U.S. Strategic Bombing of Urban Areas," The Historian 50 (November 1987): 14-39. 19 M. S. Fairchild (instructor), "Air Force: The Aim in War," March 28, 1939, pp. 10, 12, 15, copy in United States Air Force Historical Research Agency (USAFHRA), Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala., file K248.2019A-2.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 64 --- Bombing to Win force is capable towards the attainment of the ultimate aim in war." If, for exam­ ple, the American national economic structure is destroyed, "what happens to our capacity to wage war? Under such circumstances, what is the amount of pressure that would be applied to our civil population? Would it be sufficient to cause our capitulation before the threat of continued action? ... if we pic­ ture section after section of our great industrial system ceasing to produce all those numberless articles which are essential to life as we know it, we can form an idea of the pressure that would be exerted."20 The third lecture, "New York Industrial Area," translates these ideas into actual targeting plans against New York City as "a typical great city." Three target systems are identif