pare the quotes by Speer in Davis, Spaatz and the Air War, p. 398; John Terraine, A Time for Courage: The Royal Air Force in the European War, 1939-1945 (New York: Macmillan, 1985), p. 548; and Hansell, Air Plan That Defeated Hitler, p. 261. Speer's claim he wanted to surrender in February 1945 is more credible because we have his contemporary reports to Hitler as well as corroboration from Guderian and others. See Alfred C. Mierze­ jewski, "When Did Albert Speer Give Up?" Historical Journal 88 (June 1988): 391""97.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 129 --- Bombing to Win tected biases may remain, they would tend to exaggerate the effectiveness of coercion in general, strategic bombing in particular, and especially the strategies most favored by Allied commanders, namely morale bombing and strategic interdiction. Hitler himself probably never shifted from the position of no surrender. Although there is evidence that on a few occasions he conversed with For­ eign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop and with Rommel about seeking a negotiated solution with one side or the other, it is doubtful that he was ever serious about the possibility. There is no evidence that Hitler participated in the formulation of plans to approach the Allies or encouraged others to do so. He appears to have lent support to the idea of a limited surrender only a few times and never to have supported unconditional surrender. In May 1943 when Rommel told Hitler he was convinced that a complete victory was irretrievably beyond Germany's grasp, Hitler said, "Yes, I know it is necessary to make peace with one side or the other, but no one will make peace with me."112 Similarly, in February 1945, when Ribbentrop suggested offering the Western Allies an armistice so that Germany could continue fighting in the east, Hitler reportedly replied, "Very well, you can try but I don't expect anything to come of it." On 16 March, when neither the Vatican nor Portugal nor Switzerland nor Sweden nor Ireland re