st enemy. It is to serve this interest that the mili足 tary struggle continues." He hoped to enable evacuations to continue for a few more weeks. To do so some continued resistance against the Western Allies was necessary, so that they would not shut the door to the refugees. Doenitz wrote in a letter forbidding the premature surrender of Hamburg: 151 Through January 1945, forty-nine trains a day from west and central Germany supplied German forces on the eastern front, a number which dwindled to only eight or nine a day in February. Mierzejewski, Col/apse of the German War Economy, p. 173. 152 Kecskemeti, Strategic Surrender, pp. 138-44. 153 Zayas estimates that from January to May 1945, two to three million Germans were evacuated by sea alone from eastern territories to the west. Nemesis at Potsdam, p. 74. [308]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 142 --- Germany, 1942-1945 The main preoccupation of the military authorities in the present situation is to save German territory and the German race from Bolshevism ... or at least to hold it up for as long as possible, to enable the maximum number of Ger足 mans to leave the province. This evacuation is practicable only as long as a door through the zonal demarcation line agreed at Yalta remains open. If the Elbe-Trave canal is closed by the British, we shall be handing over seven mil足 lion Germans to the mercy of the Russians.l54 Indeed, 2.5-3 million German soldiers and civilians escaped from the Soviet troops during the last weeks of the war. On 2 May Doenitz, in keeping with the idea of saving as many Germans as possible from Soviet captivity, wanted to surrender to General Bernard Law Montgomery some German units then fighting the Soviets east of the Elbe. Montgomery declined this offer and also refused to permit civilian refugees to cross the Allied lines. ISS The final surrender in May indicates that the Western Allies would not have been cooperative in any event. When the German Chief of Staff, Gen足 eral JodI a