ale effect, to any other type of targets." But terror bombing was very definitely the purpose: "If the SHArrER criteria are followed, it is found that the cities selected, which have been previously free from heavy attack, do not contain a great proportion of important German transportation installations. Attack on them, therefore, will have very little effect on the transportation system." Memo, Director of Intelligence, Head­ quarters, U.s. Strategic Air Forces in Europe, to B. G. George C. McDonald, Director of Intelli­ gence, USSTAF, 27 June 1944, pp. 1, 3, app. G of Target section, USSTAF, "Suggested Plans for Attack on German Transportation Systems," September 1944, USAF HRAK519.322-1.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 104 --- Germany, 1942-1945 The first major American morale bombing raid was Operation Thunder­ clap on 3 February 1945. Thunderclap had its genesis in a 22 July 1944 meet­ ing of the British Foreign Office, Ministry of Economic Warfare, and the British and American air staffs, which concluded that the ideal form of at­ tack on German morale would be a massive raid on Berlin which would substantially destroy the city and "influence the minds of the German au­ thorities in such a way that they prefer organized surrender to continued re­ sistance." American operational commanders were not immediately attracted to the plan, but as the end of the war approached they became more receptive to countermorale operations, as originally envisioned in AWPD-l. The acting AAF commander, Lieutenant General Barney M. Giles, observed on 31 January 1945: "Indications are that pandemonium reigns in Berlin as a result of Soviet advances in the East .... have all available day and night heavy bomber aircraft directed against Berlin for the next few days with a view towards accentuating this condition."43 Following Thun­ derclap, a few additional American incendiary raids were launched, against Dresden {14 February}, Munich (25 February), Berlin (26 February), Lei