the target had lost its own nuclear ally. Although planners often excuse the failure of coercive programs by citing political constraints and operational problems (e.g., weather), in fact, these seldom crippled the effectiveness of coercive air campaigns. Weather is a problem in all air campaigns and is always taken into account in planning. Similarly, political constraints are common. Although American airmen typ­ ically cite Johnson's micromanagement as the reason for coercive air power failed in Vietnam from 1965 to 1968, they usually fail to mention Nixon's in­ terference in rules of engagement during the coercive success of 1972. Over­ all, operational and political constraints only infrequently stopped air campaigns from reaching the military objectives the airmen believed they  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 149 --- Bombing to Win needed to achieve. In fact, these military objectives are normally reached, and airmen do a terrific job of overcoming the constraints of weather and politics. These coercive campaigns failed despite effective implementation because they were badly conceived. The bottom line, then, is that coercion is extremely hard. Success in con­ ventional coercion can be attained only if the coercer is fully prepared to im­ pose its demands by force and usually only after fighting a long way toward a military decision. Oddly, even nuclear coercion has made only small dif­ ferences, usually because the side with nuclear superiority has a large con­ ventional advantage as well. Political leaders who rely on coercion by air power to gain their objectives without having to fight for them are likely to be disappointed, often disastrously. STRATEGIC BOMBING DOESN'T MATTER Coercive air power is usually identified with strategic bombing. This is a mistake. History shows that strategic bombing strategies are the least effec­ tive ways to use air power for coercion. First, punishment does not work. Modern nation states have extremely high pain thres