on and conversion of civilian to military manufacturing means that industry can hardly contribute to wars lasting less than six months or a year. Accordingly, demolishing weapons plants, and even the entire economy, is often futile. The de­ struction of civilian transportation also rarely matters. The transportation requirements of military units and their logistics is generally small com­ pared to the capacity of national transportation systems. Because military transportation can receive priority passage, national transportation ca­ pacity generally cannot be reduced below the level required by the mili­ tary. Moreover, destroying national power grids does not weaken military capabilities in the theater. The widespread use of backup power generation, the positioning of POL reserves, and the low power require­ ments of military units means that military forces do not depend on na­ tional power grids to execute their functions. Instead of weakening battlefield capabilites, the greatest effect of strategic interdiction in short wars is to punish civilians, whose welfare is always tightly linked to the health of the economy. By contrast, in long wars of attrition strategic interdiction can be an effec­ tive denial strategy. Wars of attrition occur when states seek victory by pushing the opponent back along a broad front in a series of set-piece bat­ tles. Rather than attempt to score a single knockout punch, opponents seek to overwhelm each other with numbers, and battles are fought to wear down opposing military capabilities. Accordingly, the side with greater manpower and a la:t;ger material base will ultimately win.46 In essence, wars of attrition are economic wars in which outcomes are determined by relative manufacturing capability.47 46 John Mearsheimer, Conventional Deterrence (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1983), pp. 33-34· 47 On the connection between the economic foundations of military power and the nature of war, see Paul M. Kennedy, "The First World W