er, the Germans shifted their attacks from these weak points in the British air defense system to bombing the city of London, allowing the air defenses to recover. As a result, the Germans never gained air superiority and so could not even begin to implement their threat to invade the United Kingdom.2 Air superiority is not a separate coercive air strategy but a necessary step in the pursuit of all four coercive air strategies. The central question in air strategy is what to attack once air superiority has been achieved. 2 Len Deighton, Fighter: The True Story of the Battle of Britain (London: Johnathan Cape, 1977); Derek Wood and Derek Dempster, The Narrow Margin: The Battle of Britain and the Rise of Air Power, 1930-1940 (London: Hutchinson, 1961); and John Terraine, A Time for Courage: The Royal Air Force in the European War, 1939-1945 (New York: Macmillan, 1985). For German intentions in the Battle of Britain, see F. M. Sallagar, The Road to Total War: Escalation in World War II, R-465-PR (Santa Monica, Calif.: Rand Corporation, 1969), p. 7.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 59 --- Coercive Air Power Punishment and the Theories of Giulio Douhet Aerial punishment attempts to inflict enough pain on enemy civilians to overwhelm their territorial interests in the dispute and to cause either the government to concede or the population to revolt against the government. Air power can impose terrible costs on civilians by saturation bombing of population centers, as occurred in World War II. Or it can cause pain indi­ rectly by wrecking the civilian economy. Destroying electric power grids, oil refineries, water and sewer systems, and domestic transportation can sub­ stantially lower a nation's ability to distribute and refrigerate food, purify water, and heat homes, thus, over time, increasing poverty, disease, and hunger in the general population. Punishment was the first coercive strategy to be put into practice when airpower was developed. The earliest significa