acted to Nazi ideology.85 Most important, the only way to change German state policy decided by the Nazis was to oust them from power, and only the Army had sufficient force to do so. The German officer corps was itself divided into two main camps. The so­ called Nazi generals, mostly younger and from middle-class backgrounds, either owed their rapid promotion to Hitler or identified with National So­ cialism. 86 This group is represented by Erwin Rommel, Heinz Guderian, 85 Even though Hitler had succeeded in transforming the 1930S tactical alliance between conservative officers and the Nazis into party domination over the military, for many con­ servative officers, class and institutional loyalties remained much stronger than commitment to the Nazi regime. On party-army relations, see Robert J. O'Neill, The German Army and Nazi Party (London: Cassell, 1966); Harold Deutsch, Hitler and His Generals (Minneapolis: Univer­ sity of Minnesota Press, 1974); and John Wheeler-Bennett, The Nemesis of Power: The German Army in Politics, 1918-1945 (London: Macmillan, 1964). 86 There was also a less important group of genuine pro-Russian anti-Communists who hoped that the collapse of bolshevism would be followed by a regime with which Germany could cooperate. Wheeler-Bennett, Nemesis of Power, pp. 611-12.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 119 --- Bombing to Win Wilhelm Keitel, Alfred JodI, Walter Model, Adm. Karl Doenitz, Albert Kesselring, Walter von Reichenau, and Walter Warlimont. In the other camp were conservative, largely aristocratic officers who followed the tra­ dition of the old Prussian officer corps. Domestically, this group opposed the class-leveling tendencies of both the Weimar republic and National So­ cialism, preferring to maintain their leading class and institutional position in society. In foreign policy they strongly supported the Nazi goal of reviv­ ing Germany's international position but were much less enthusiastic about a far-ranging campaign of co