as centralized and decentralized can be misleading. These terms generally relate to the discretion given tactical unit commanders (e.g., divisions and brigades) by theater commanders (e.g., corps and armies). Even in militaries famous for centralized command styles and major roles for political leaders in operational affairs, national leaders are 59 For an excellent analysis of foreign-backed coups, see Steven R. David, Third World Coups d'Etat and International Security (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1987), pp. 138--52. 60 Jason B. Barlow, "Strategic Paralysis: An Air Power Strategy for the Present," Airpower Journal 7 (Winter 1993): 4-15. 61 Hans Rosenberg, Bureaucracy, Aristocracy, and Autocracy (Boston: Beacon Press, 1958); and Martin Van Creveld, The Transformation of War (New York: Free Press, 1991).  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 85 --- Coercive Air Power still mainly concerned with broad decisions regarding fronts to be defended and attacked and not the orchestration of tactical units or their battlefield sup足 port to execute those decisions. Except in smallest contingencies, national leaders normally cannot plan and coordinate in-theater military operations.62 Thus, communication between national and theater commanders need not be voluminous and instantaneous. Major changes in strategic direction involve so much planning and logistic effort that they take days or weeks to implement theaterwide. Accordingly, short delays in receiving such orders rarely matter. Second, strategic communications cannot be cut for long. Since national or足 ders can be extremely short messages, many means can be used to send them effectively (land lines, radio transmissions, couriers, and face-to-face meet足 ings). Moreover, disruptions of any of these methods is easily repaired because breaking strategic communication does not cause the same traffic jams that breaking intratheater communication does. Because theater warfare is analo足 gous to railroad management