e concessions before being militarily defeated, if the coercer's actions cause the target to make concessions, coercion has succeeded. For instance, whereas the Allies in World War II had no expectations of achieving uncon­ ditional surrender of the Axis powers short of decisive victory, during the summer of 1943 it became clear that factions within the Italian government wished to leave the war, and in September Italy surrendered even though at that time the Allies controlled only a tiny part of the Italian mainland. Just as the success or failure of deterrence depends on calculations in the mind of [12]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 13 --- Explaining Military Coercion the aggressor, so too does the success or failure of coercion rest in the deci­ sion of the target state. There are two fundamental types of coercion: coercion by punishment and coercion by denial. Coercion by punishment operates by raising costs or risks to civilian populations. Punishment is not limited to hitting civilians in population centers. It may take the form of killing military personnel in large numbers to exploit the casualty sensitivities of opponents. Coercion by denial operates by using military means to prevent the target from attaining its political objectives or territorial goals. The coercing state could threaten, for example, to capture territory held by the opponent or to destroy enough of the opponent's military power to thwart its territorial ambitions. The co­ ercer may try to stop the opponent from either gaining or holding territory, depending on whether the goal is to prevent an attack, stop an ongoing at­ tack, or force territorial concessions.1 Both coercion by punishment and coercion by denial are logically distinct from the imposition of demands after complete military victory. Although coercers and war fighters may seek identical goals, such as the reduction of political aims, agreement to a cease-fire, withdrawal of forces, or even sur­ render, how they attai