ility. Unlike Nazi civil­ ian leaders and Nazi officers whose political, institutional, and social stand­ ing would be destroyed by surrender (if they were not simply killed), conservative officers could expect to preserve much of their position in so­ ciety even if Germany lost the war. The main disagreement among the con­ servatives was whether overthroWing Hitler would soften Allied demands; it was the dividing issue between those who joined the coup and those who did not. Following Hitler's early successes against Czechoslovakia, Poland, and France, most German military leaders came to believe that ultimate victory against Germany's remaining enemies was possible so long as they could be fought successively.120 The first major blow to this optimism occurred after the Battle of Stalingrad, when the loss of more than the entire German Sixth Army in the most disastrous battlefield defeat in German history affected the political calculations of military leaders. Manstein believed that decisive German victory was no longer possible and that the chief goal must now be the prevention of total disaster: "On the German side there could no longer be any question of this being one last bid for the palm of final victory. . . . the principal aim ... could only be, in the words of Schlieffen, 'to bring de­ feat underfoot.' " Kesselring concurred but stressed that since the German war machine held great potential and the entire homeland was still intact, Germany would be in a good bargaining position if the Allies wished to ne­ gotiate a settlement. Rommel hoped that Germany's remaining military power could persuade the Allies to "conclude a tolerable peace.,,121 At this point, a small group of mostly junior officers led by Stauffenberg, Dohnanyi, and Canaris started plotting against Hitler. During 1943, they 119 Bullock, Hitler and Stalin, p. 889. 120 Armstrong, Unconditional Surrender, p. 113. 121 Erich von Manstein, Lost Victories (New York: Methuen, 1958), p. 367; Intervie