n: Center of International Studies, Woodrow Wilson School of [66]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 67 --- Coercive Air Power Like the Douhet model, the Schelling model focuses on population and economic targets. Civilian punishment can be inflicted both directly by killing large numbers and indirectly by destroying economic infrastructure, depriving the population of essential goods and services. There is, however, a fundamental difference. The Schelling model holds ultimate ruin in abeyance. Douhet called for immediate devastation: "Inflict the greatest damage in the shortest possible time."28 The campaign need not be launched at the opening of a dispute to succeed, but the damage must be in足 flicted in a concentrated period of time. By contrast, Schelling argued that the key is not to destroy the entire target set in one fell swoop. Since coercive leverage comes from the anticipation of future damage, military action must be careful to spare a large part of the opponent's civilian assets in order to threaten further destruction: "To be coercive, violence has to be anticipated . . . . It is the expectation of more violence that gets the wanted behavior, if the power to hurt can get it at all."29 This logic calls into question the coercive usefulness of punishment strategies. Since, according to Schelling, sunk costs do not influence deci足 sions, inflicting massive damage actually reduces the coercer's leverage. Punishment theories avoid this dilemma by assuming, explicitly or implic足 itly, that sunk costs do matter. In Douhet's model, for instance, victims of bombing are moved to revolt more by their emotional reaction to current suffering than by their rational consideration of future risks. According to Schelling's view, the coercer must convince the opponent that targets will in fact be destroyed. Under this strategy, bombing is gradu足 ally escalated in intensity, geographical extent, or both. For example, a Schelling campaign might destroy targets in a seq