uL Since the victor must pay the full costs of winning the war to reach this situation, it gains no benefit from coercion, and since the victor has the ability to inflict unlimited harm on the defeated at little or no cost, coercion in this situation nearly always succeeds. These trivial successes tell us little about cases in which the victim can resist. See Schelling, Arms and Influence (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1966), pp. 12-15.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 14 --- Bombing to Win While logically distinct, efforts to coerce and efforts to achieve military victory are not completely separate activities, depending on the coercer's strategy. Coercion by punishment is relatively distinct from war fighting, for modem military forces often inflict civilian punishment without engaging opposing forces, and civilian pain, whether death, injury, illness, or hunger, is often observable and measurable separately from events on the battle­ field. The distinction between coercion by denial and pursuit of military vic­ tory is more ambiguous, for both present the target state with military failure.3 Moreover, coercers themselves often do not distinguish; instead, they pursue both options, hoping to attain their goals by coercion if possible and by decisive victory if necessary. However, distinguishing between coer­ cion by denial and war fighting in actual military operations is easier in some circumstances than others. For example, when assailants have limited aims, coercion need only threaten the target's ability to control the disputed territory; it need not pose the risk of complete defeat. Alternatively, military strategies that depend on surprise for their effectiveness have no coercive value because they cannot be used to threaten the target with defeat. 4 The gray area between coercion by denial and war fighting would be a problem only if war fighting ruled out coercion or if it were impossible to observe the difference between coercive success and compl