show that the requirements for successful coercion are very high. Even when coercion succeeds, moreover, it rarely gains very much. Conventional attack on civilians was pursued as a major coercive strategy in four of the five cases (Germany, Japan, Korea, and Vietnam) and played a minor role in the fifth (Iraq). In two of the five (Germany and Japan), it was operationally unrestrained and very destructive. In three cases it was re足 strained (Korea, Vietnam, and Iraq). In no case can it be shown to have pro足 duced concessions to any part of the coercer's demands. Conventional denial strategies were seriously pursued in all five cases. In four cases they succeeded, although in all but one instance the gains were minor. The greatest success was the Gulf War: Iraq agreed to the most im足 portant Coalition demand (withdrawal from Kuwait) but not to others (abandonment of equipment and a humiliating admission of defeat). By contrast, in November 1951 the Chinese conceded a small area of territory but rejected other UN demands, prolonging the war for another twenty months. In 1972 the North Vietnamese agreed to a cease-fire, but it forced them only to defer, not to abandon, their offensive plans. Japan surrendered, but only on the doorstep of total defeat. Coercion of Germany failed alto足 gether; the war went on until Germany was completely overrun. Nuclear coercion was tried twice. In one case actual bombs were used (Japan); in the other only a veiled threat (Korea). Neither, however, yielded much additional coercive leverage. Nuclear devastation was only one of several pressures on Japanese elites, and not the decisive one. Nuclear threats did have coercive impact in the Korean War but succeeded only in resolving peripheral issues such as prisoner repatration, and only after the target had lost its own nuclear ally. Although planners often excuse the failure of coercive programs by citing political constraints and operational problems (e.g., weather), in fact, these seldo