e. Regime members have less reason to resist if their main social values are not under threat. More important, when sacrificing the current individual leaders is the only real domestic cost to concessions, even their strongest social and political allies may withdraw their support. Similarly, the rulers themselves may offer up the top leader as a sacrificial lamb if doing so will save the remainder of the government. For example, in 1943 the Italian government jettisoned Mussolini in an unsuc­ cessful effort to persuade the Allies not to replace the nonfascist ruling cir-  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 33 --- Explaining Military Coercion des in power.32 If regimes expect concessions to result in the destruction of the ruling group and social institutions, either by an occupying opponent or by a new, hostile domestic regime, the government is likely to resist to the end regardless of the consequences. The ruling elite can survive loss of power if the political system has a tra­ dition of peaceful change and if the ruling elite has deep sources of power in society aside from its control of the current government. For example, the German Nazis were a purely political elite; once discredited and out of power, they could expect to retain no source of social, economic, or political influence.33 In contrast, the former daimyo and samurai families that ruled Japan in 1945 had staffed every modern Japanese government and faced no real social or political opposition. Thus, the Japanese government could con­ template surrender, whereas the N~zis could not. Further, the power of governments to control societies increases in coer­ cive disputes. Governments possess advantages in domestic political com­ petition, and their resistance to concessions is likely to control policy even when it is not in the interest of the society as a whole. The cushion of legiti­ macy provided by nationalism permits the government to maintain the al­ legiance of the population, especially for