ttle, Brown, 1971). 5 In sharp contrast to the voluminous literature on coercion produced in the 1960s, the only major attempt by a social scientist to explain this failure in the decade after Saigon fell was Wallace J. Thies, When Governments Collide: Coercion and Diplomacy in the Vietnam Conflict, 1964-1968 (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1980).  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 4 --- Bombing to Win electric power plants in part because the American defense community did not remember the failure of such campaigns in Korea and Vietnam. COMPETING EXPLANATIONS "Coercion" means efforts to change the behavior of a state by manipulat­ ing costs and benefits. Both coercion and deterrence focus on influencing the adversary's calculus for decision making, but deterrence seeks to main­ tain the status quo by discouraging an opponent from changing its behav­ ior. By contrast, coercion seeks to force the opponent to alter its behavior.6 While coercion is thus the flip side of deterrence, the two can be intimately linked in practice. At the same time that the coercer hopes to force the target state to change its behavior, the target can hope to deter the coercer from ex­ ecuting the threat. Although states often use economic, diplomatic, or other forms of nonmilitary coercion, military coercion, the use of military instru­ ments to change an opponent's behavior, deserves special attention because it is the form most often used when very important interests are at stake and because its use has the greatest physical and normative consequences.7 At the risk of oversimplifying, existing theories of coercion may be grouped into four broad families. The first family emphasizes the balance of resolve, contending that the state with the greater determination or reputa­ tion for determination is likely to prevail in coercive disputes.8 The second family highlights the balance of interests, arguing that the state with the greater stake in a dispute's outcome will prevai1.