able to crack before a nation of greater stamina [i.e., Britain]. It can be argued that concentrated attacks on the main centres of population in Germany ... might compara足 tively quickly produce internal disruption in Germany." Chief of Staff Report, 7 January 1941, in Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive 1: 297. 20 AWPD-l, p. 7, tab 1, p. 9, tab 2, p. 5.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 96 --- Germany, 1942-1945 to a new strategy that focused more narrowly on sectors of industry directly linked to the combat power of the Wehrmacht.21 The main catalyst of the change was the January 1943 report by the Army Air Forces Committee of Operations Analysts, whose recommendations were supported in the field by General Ira C. Eaker, the commander of the Eighth Air Force. The cornerstone of strategic interdiction is to reduce the enemy's capacity to field forces by destroying the production facilities for manufacture of weapons systems. Like the industrial web theory, strategic interdiction is a kind of precision-bombing strategy that seeks to destroy an entire industrial system by striking only a small number of targets. Unlike the industrial web theory, it aims to coerce by denying the enemy the ability to control territory rather than through pressure against the civilian population, by destroying military manufacturing narrowly defined rather than the national industrial structure as a whole. The key assumption is that destroying certain identifi足 able components early in the military production cycle will make the large足 scale manufacture of finished military equipment such as tanks, aircraft, and artillery impossible. Ideal targets for this strategy were thought to in足 clude primary and semifinished products with special military use such as ball bearings, machine tools, rubber, aluminum, magnesium, nickel, steel, and nitrates. Although early American war plans focused on industrial-web targets such as electric power and transportation, as the war progres