File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 1 --- [1] Why Study Military Coercion? This book analyzes the dynamics of military coercion. It asks why some states decide to change their behavior when threatened with military con­ sequences and other states do not. Why, for example, did the Japanese in 1945 and the Chinese in 1953 concede, whereas the British in 1940 and the North Vietnamese from 1965 to 1968 did not? This book seeks to determine the conditions under which coercion has succeeded and failed in the past in order to predict when it is likely to succeed and fail in the future. The accepted wisdom is that successful coercion, whether nuclear or con­ ventional, rests on the threat to inflict harm on civilians. In contrast, I main­ tain that coercion, at least in conventional wars, succeeds when force is used to exploit the opponent's military vulnerabilities, thereby making it in­ feasible for the opponent to achieve its political goals by continued military efforts. The topic of military coercion is important for theoretical, policy, and moral reasons. Throughout history, states have repeatedly employed mili­ tary force in attempting to persuade other states to do their bidding.1 Both the successes and the failures merit careful attention. Successful coercion can bring about important changes in the distribution of power; for exam­ ple, Nazi Germany's success in compelling Austria and Czechoslovakia to submit to its rule made Germany stronger in relation to-and much more dangerous to-England, France, and the Soviet Union. On the other hand, unsuccessful coercion can be costly for the victim but disastrous for the in- 1 Peter Karsten, Peter D. Howell, and Artis Francis Allen, Military Threats: A Systematic His­ torical Analysis of the Determinants of Success (Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1984), counted 77 major cases of military coercion in international crises since ancient times. This figure underestimates the full universe of military coercion because it le