e earlier evolution of German policy, particularly from the start of the war against the Soviet Union. The Nazi leaders and the German generals each entered the war against the Soviets for their own reasons, which were not mutually exclusive. The generals believed Germany needed to expand eastward to achieve eco­ nomic and military autarky. Many believed that the growing Soviet indus­ trial base posed a long-term threat to Germany, as well as an immediate threat to Romania and the Wehrmacht's oil supply. They also believed that agricultural shortages had significantly contributed to Germany's defeat in World War I and that colonizing food-producing areas in Eastern Europe would remove this vulnerability.91 Nazi goals in the war against the Soviet Union were driven by National Socialist ideology. Their principal imperative was lebensraum ("living space") for the German nation, to be achieved through territorial control of parts of Eastern Europe and the western Soviet Union (Baltic lands, Be­ lorussia, western Ukraine, and the Crimea).92 Within the annexed areas, all 90 On the resistance, see Ernst Wolf, "Political and Moral Motives behind the Resistance," in German Resistance to Hitler, ed. Graml, pp. 193-271; Ulrich von Hassell, The von Hassell Di­ aries, 1938-1944 (Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday, 1947); Rothfels, German Opposition to Hitler; Dulles, Germany's Underground; Hoffmann, History of the German Resistance. 91 These concerns essentially followed the grand strategic thinking of the German general staff before and after World War I. Arden Bucholz, Malice, Schlieffen, and Russian War Planning (New York: Berg, 1991); Imanuel Geiss, German Foreign Policy, 1871-1914 (Boston: Routledge and Kegan Paul, 1976). 92 Operation Barbarosa was intended to achieve both sets of goals. On 30 March 1941 Hitler explained to his generals that achieving all Germany's goals would require more than in­ flicting a decisive victory over enemy forces in the field. The slogan for his So