erience, 1939-1941," in Cast Studies in the Development of Close Air Support, ed. Benjamin Franklin Cooling (Washington, D.C.: Office of Air Force History, 1990), pp. 71-114; and Matthew Cooper, The German Air Force, 1933-1945: An Anatomy of Failure (New York: Janes, 1981).  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 71 --- Coercive Air Power dustrial targets was beyond the limits of their technology. As a result, early Luftwaffe operations tended to reinforce rather than challenge doctrinal preferences established under the auspices of the army.35 Finally, strategic bombing of industrial centers did not contribute to, and indeed subtracted from, Germany's grand strategic requirements. Germany's central military vulnerability was that it possessed within its own territory insufficient raw materials to support a wartime economy. Consequently, a basic principle of Germany's grand strategy was to acquire the economic assets of the Euro­ pean continent. Successful achievement of this goal required the domina­ tion rather than destruction of economic structures. 36 The second major denial strategy, strategic interdiction, involves large­ scale operations either to destroy the enemy's sources of military production or to isolate them from combat theaters or fronts. Its purpose is to reduce the aggregate quantities of weapons and war materiel available to the opponent. Two forms of strategic interdiction emerged. The first was the "critical component" theory, the first instance of which was the industrial web strategy. Although the main purpose of the strategy was to reduce civilian will to continue by inflicting punishment, complete destruction of the enemy economy would obviously impede war produc­ tion as well, reducing the quantity and quality of military equipment and supplies that could be delivered to a theater of operations. The crucial assumption, however, was that there exists some small, and therefore inex­ pensive to destroy, target set that produces a key item or se