eir efforts mainly to morale bombing, but they did not. In addi­ tion, the predominance of stone rather than wood construction in German cities inherently limited their combustibility. See Horatio Bond, Fire and the Air War (Boston: National Fire Pro­ tection Association, 1946). 48 The minor difference in morale between bombed and unbombed communities seems to suggest that German defeats on the eastern and western fronts did more to lower morale than did fear of harm from bombing. Whereas 60 percent of civilians in heavily bombed towns may have demonstrated low morale, 50 percent of those in unbombed towns also had low morale by the end of the war. USSBS, The Effects of Strategic Bombing on German Morale (Washington, D.C.: GPO, 1947), p. 13.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 106 --- Germany, 1942-1945 absenteeism approached 20 percent during the last months of the war, the countercivilian raids had only a minor effect on the overall economy and practically no effect on war production.49 Three factors account for the poor economic results. First, despite de­ pression, most workers simply continued to work in routine fashion. The German armament industry sustained a steady increase in munitions pro­ duction until July 1944 and even in January 1945 had declined by only 30 percent from the peak. The u.s. Strategic Bombing Survey was largely cor­ rect when it concluded: "Allied bombing widely and seriously depressed German civilians, but depressed and discouraged workers were not neces­ sarily unproductive workers."so Second, various methods of industrial rationalization (standardization, concentration in larger firms, substitution, and redistribution of resources and manpower used in civilian supply industries) enabled German indus­ try to sustain the country's war effort. These measures introduced efficien­ cies more. than adequate to counter the effects of bombing on morale at least until late 1944.51 Finally, few industrial plants were located in city centers. He