ry, 1993-94 (Alexandria, Va.: Jane's Informa­ tion Group, 1993), pp. 58-59.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 158 --- Beyond Strategic Bombing prewar force before replacement production could make even a tiny con­ tribution to the need.28 It would be difficult for even a superpower patron to make good such losses. American tank production from 1984 to 1993 averaged 840 per year.29 If such a case nonetheless arose, strategic bombing of the client would re­ main irrelevant, but PGMs would enhance the effectiveness of air interdic­ tion, either to prevent delivery to the client or from rear areas to the front. The only opponents against which strategic bombing can matter are the world's largest military and industrial powers. These countries, however, generally possess strategic nuclear weapons. 30 Thus, any argument for con­ ventional strategic bombing in such a conflict requires assuming that one side will permit the other routinely to fly missions throughout its airspace with nuclear-capable aircraft that could deliver a nuclear first strike without warn­ ing at any time-without resorting to nuclear threats or preventive actions. 31 The coercive strategy that benefits most from the PGM revolution is the­ ater air attack. This is because many of the most important theater interdic­ tion targets, as well as ground support targets, are point targets requiring direct hits: tanks, armored personnel carriers, self-propelled artillery, bunkers used for communications, logistic storage, or other purposes, and bridges. 32 Without PGMs, well-constructed bunkers and bridges can usually be destroyed only with tremendous effort, while dug-in combat vehicles are next to impossible to hit from the air. With PGMs, these missions become feasible, although still far from easy.33 PGMs also allow aircraft to attack from a safer distance and altitude, avoiding the densest ground fire. 28 At the indicated loss rates, Israel, Egypt, Syria, and Iraq would have lost their entire tank in