ns that have thus far been waged, air power has never driven the masses into the streets to demand anything. Although bombing economic structures can weaken an opponent's mili­ tary capabilities in long wars, the first effects are generally felt by civilians. Since nearly all military and governmental facilities have backup power generation, the loss of electric power mainly shuts down public utilities (water pumping and purification systems), residential users (food refriger­ ation), and general manufacturing in the economy. Since the military gener­ ally has first call on oil, the effects of oil shortages fall mainly on civilians, cutting the fuel available for heating and civilian transportation (food dis­ tribution). Destroying rail and road bridges throughout the country further degrades the food distribution system. 31 Mark Clodfelter, The Limits of Air Power: The American Bombing of North Vietnam (New York: Free Press, 1989), pp. 39-72. [68]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 69 --- Coercive Air Power Since World War II, Western publics have shrunk from using indiscrimi­ nate means against noncombatants to pressure other states. Western air campaigns have, however, inflicted indirect pUnishment on civilian popu­ lations by attacking economic targets. Electric power grids, internal trans­ portation networks, and dams were destroyed in Korea; electric power grids, oil refining, and internal transportation were also wrecked in Viet­ nam; and electric power, oil refining, and internal transportation were de­ molished in Iraq. In none of these cases, however, did civilian pressure induce governments to surrender. The key reason is that air attack against civilian infrastructure is even less effective than direct punishment in stimulating disruptive behavior. Inade­ quate food, lack of transportation, poor sanitary facilities, and the break­ down of public utilities and services (gas, wate~ electricity, heat supply, etc.) produce less effect on civilians than di