gic targets more easily and bombers cost approximately 600 million dollars each (if the United States buys more than twenty}-or the equivalent of some ten thousand very good laser-guided bombs or Maverick precision-guided missiles, roughly two-thirds of the number of PGMs fired in in the Gulf War. 6 Ground support is sometimes effective against guerillas, whereas interdiction generally is not. 7 Foremost is Colonel John A. Warden III, one of the principal architects of the strategic air campaign against Iraq and the commander from 1992 to 1995 of the Air Command and Staff College, the air force school for promising midlevel officers. Warden, "Employing Air Power in the Twenty-first Century," in Future of Air Power, ed. Schultz and Pfaltzgraff, pp. 57-82. Others include Jason B. Barlow, "Strategic Paralysis: An Air Power Strategy for the Present," Airpower Journal 7 (Winter 1993): 4-15; Edward Mann, "One Target, One Bomb: Is the Princi足 ple of Mass Dead?" Airpower Journal 7 (Spring 1993): 35-43; Buster C. Glosson, "Impact of Precision Weapons on Air Combat Operations," Airpower Journal 7 (Summer 1993): 4-10; and Phillip S. Meilinger, "Towards a New Airpower Lexicon; or, Interdiction: An Idea Whose Time Has Finally Gone?" Airpower Journal 7 (Summer 1993): ~9-48.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 152 --- Beyond Strategic Bombing more rapidly than nonprecision weapons. The claim is that PGMs overturn previous limitations on strategic air power, greatly enhancing the effective足 ness of all the coercive strategies that depend on strategic air power-pun足 ishment, risk, and decapitation. s The premise of these arguments is true, but the logic is faulty. PGMs make it possible for fewer aircraft to destroy more targets than in the past, but this enhanced efficiency makes little difference to the coercive effectiveness of any of these strategies. Consider punishment. Strategic bombing advocates claim that PGM足 equipped aircraft can suddenly and simultaneously knock out the