nflict actu­ ally increases domestic support for governments; see Jack Levy, "The Diversionary Theory of War: A Critique," in Handbook of War Studies, ed. Manus Midlarsky (Boston: Unwin Hyman, 1989), pp. 25'f-88.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 26 --- Bombing to Win bombings, nevertheless had extremely hostile attitudes toward the Allies elsewhere in their interviews. In response to the question, "How' did you feel about the Americans during the war?" one-fourth of Japanese gave no answer, 40 percent spoke in terms of hatred, and only 11 percent answered that they had no ill feelings. This breakdown probably underestimates the actual incidence of antienemy sentiment, since the interviews were con­ ducted by Americans who had their countries under military occupation.22 In Germany and Japan bombing did contribute to wartime increases in petty crime (looting, black marketeering, and juvenile delinquency), but ob­ vious forms of subversive activity were extremely rare.23 That subversive ac­ tivity did not increase in Great Britain as well suggests that loyalty to the state may have been as important a factor as the conditions ofrepiessive and coercive control exercised by totalitarian governments. In contrast, light punishment produces popular anger toward the attacker and, often, demands for reprisals. In World War II, Americans justified the bombing of Japan as retribution for Pearl Harbor. Similarly, in both World Wars, British civilians who had not experienced heavy air attacks were more likely to favor an aggressive "Bomb Berlin" policy than those who had.24 It is also true that forcible removal· of the regime by popular opposition groups is unlikely as long as military forces are loyal to the government. To overturn a government, opposition groups must do more than passively re­ sist government orders; they must wrest possession of important instruments of national control, such as communication, transportation, and administra­ tive centers. Opposition grou