t­ egories of targets, attacking either political, economic, population, or mili­ tary targets in isolation or combination. Given adequate intelligence, air power can also attack selective target sets within these categories, which may be helpful if, for example, there are bottlenecks in key industries­ whether in raw materials production (or importation), transportation to 69 Higham, Air Power. 70 Wesley Frank Craven and James Lea Cate, The Army Air Forces in World War II (Wash­ ington, D.C.: GPO, 1948),2: 699-704.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 46 --- Bombing to Win manufacturing sites, manufacturing, or delivery of finished goods. Naval blockade can affect only the first link (and only to the extent that the mater­ ial must be imported), but air power can attack any of them. There are two major types of coercive air operations: strategic bombing, which attacks fixed military, industrial, or civilian targets in and near polit­ ical or economic centers, and interdiction, which strikes at lines of supply between military production and the combat theater as well as theater lo­ gistics, command centers, and fielded forces, usually in support of friendly ground operations. Strictly speaking, interdiction, which strikes at targets behind the front, is separable from ground support, which attacks frontline units, but both are forms of theater air attack as opposed to strategic bomb­ ing. Strategic bombing campaigns can pursue either a punishment strategy, by harming enemy civilians in order to lower their morale and motivate them to force their governments to end the war, or a denial strategy, by damaging the opponent's war economy to the point that sufficient produc­ tion cannot be maintained to continue the war successfully. Theater air cam­ paigns are virtually pure denial. They seek to weaken enemy battlefield forces by starving them of needed logistic support or by direct attrition so that their collapse becomes inevitable. Accordingly, air power is a more f