y Revolution, 1560-1660 (Belfast: Queen's University of Belfast, 1956).  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 40 --- Bombing to Win power's ability to seize territory. Still, punishment remained important. Armies of a hundred thousand could devastate agricultural and commercial resources en route to battle, whether they were foraging for supplies or sim­ ply engaged in plunder. So great was the devastation wrought by maraud­ ing armies during the Thirty Years' War that all the parties eventually agreed to a settlement even though none of them attained its original terri­ torial objectives. In addition, wartime diseases cost more lives prior to the French revolutionary wars than did battle casualties.53 The Thirty Years' War was a watershed. Advances in fortification tech­ nology countered cannon, and more centralized and wealthier states prolif­ erated border defenses, leading to a period of limited, positional warfare. Denial capabilities were limited by the logistic and time requirements of sieges, which made conquest of territory an excruciatingly slow process. At the same time, punishment capabilities declined. Although foraging and pillaging still took place, fortification belts shielded the major portions of a state's population from marauding armies.54 The industrial revolution, together with increasing democratization and nationalism, led to changes that ended the punishment role of land power and made it into a tool for denial. Industrialization made possible the mass production of weapons, greatly increased their firepower, and expanded the capacity of military transport and logistics. Intense nationalism motivated citizens to accept great personal sacrifice, including military service, for the purposes and goals of the state. These advances, together with improved administrative controls, enabled states to mobilize, arm, and maintain in the field armies of unprecedented size. Since no fixed fortification can resist the firepower of industrial armies for l