nese POWs. To break the deadlock, the United States threat­ ened nuclear bombing and lent the threat credibility by gradually escalating conventional air attacks during the spring of 1953 and warning that nuclear attacks would follow. Meanwhile, two political events may also have en­ hanced credibility. The election of Eisenhower reduced domestic constraints on U.S. action, and the death of Stalin in March reduced American fears of possible Soviet retaliation. The Chinese agreed to the u.s. terms in June. Coercion succeeds if the coercer can alter key components in the target state's decision calculus sufficiently to compel concessions. In major inter­ national disputes, the main stakes generally involve control over territory, the value of which the coercer cannot significantly alter. Accordingly, there are three main coercive strategies. Punishment strategies seek to inflict max­ imum damage on civilian targets in order to raise costs above the value of the stakes at issue. An alternative countercivilian strategy relies on manipu­ lating risk of future damage rather than inflicting maximum actual damage. Denial strategies attack military-related targets in order to undermine the opponent's strategy for controlling the territory in dispute. Of these three strategies, denial is most effective. Given the limited de­ structiveness of conventional munitions and the relative insensitivity of modern nation-states to civilian costs, punishment is likely to succeed only when the opponent's resolve or the stakes are low. Risk strategies are likely to be even less effective since at best they can threaten no more damage than is actually inflicted under a punishment strategy. Only when the threat is virtually unlimited damage from nuclear weapons will this approach work. Denial is effective more often, but success depends on the coercer's ability to undermine the opponent's strategy for protecting or capturing the territory at issue. If the coercer lacks the capability to att