lerable. The target then concedes in order to avoid suffering further losses to no purpose. Nuclear coercion is different, because nuclear weapons have nearly un­ limited capacity to do harm. No state can stand up under nuclear punish­ ment. At the same time, denial does not matter, not because nuclear weapons are ineffective against military forces but because the threat to 25 The theory originally developed from a probe of the explanatory power of commonly identified ingredients of coercion taken as Single-factor propositions in two case studies­ Japan and Vietnam. Although these initial hypotheses proved unsatisfactory, this effort en­ abled me to formulate a new theory, which has, as I hope to demonstrate, explanatory power not only for Japan and Vietnam but also for coercive air power in general. Further, though I have not tested the theory against cases that do not involve air power, comparison of the ef­ fects of land, sea, and air power in the cases I have studied suggests that the theory probably has explanatory power for all forms of military coercion. 26 This is a broader definition of denial than that used by deterrence theorists, who usually refer only to defeat of an anticipated attack. See Snyder, Deterrence by Punishment and Denial. [10]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 11 --- Why Study Military Coercion? civilians implied by any use of nuclear weapons is likely to overwhelm their military impact. Accordingly, successful nuclear coercion rests on threats to civilians rather than against military vulnerabilities. In short, the conven­ tional wisdom is right for nuclear disputes but wrong for conventional cases. The next chapter defines military coercion more precisely and builds and tests a new theory based on the interaction between coercers' strate­ gies and target states' vulnerabilities. Chapter 3 explains the major coer­ cive air strategies that have been used in international disputes; Chapters 4 through 8 investigate in detail how these st