kades have no effect on modem industrial economies. In World War I, Russia was chronically short of explosives, and in World War II, Germany was never able, despite synthetic production, to satisfy its oil and rubber requirements fully. Together with battlefield pres­ sures, these shortages ultimately contributed to the defeat of both countries. Nevertheless, only in cases of extreme import dependence is blockade deci­ sive. Import losses can cripple the war economy of a modem industrial state only when the imported materials are indispensable for war production, no substitutes are available, and shortfalls cannot be made up by conservation. In World War II, Japan had to import nearly all of its oil, rubber, aluminum, and tin, and most of its iron ore. When its merchant fleet was destroyed and stockpiles exhausted, Japan's war economy collapsed. Blockade is also an indiscriminate instrument, because it affects the target economy as a whole. Coercers cannot choose between punishment and de­ nial, for even if they selectively block war-related materials, the target state can often shift resources within its economy. Germany in World War I suf­ fered food shortages because government deliberately shifted manpower, animals, and chemical production from agriculture to the war effort. In ef­ fect, Germany punished itself rather than submit to the Allies' denial efforts. Moreover, governments can choose who gets punished by shifting the bur­ den to politically weak groups. Thus, in World War II, Germany starved Poland and occupied Soviet territory, and conscripted slave labor.67 Air power, initially a minor instrument, has become a more and more powerful coercive tool as the range and payload of aircraft have increased and weapons have become more accurate and more destructive.68 Also, to a 66 On the ability of modern state bureaucracies to offset blockade-induced shortages, see Olson, Economics of Wartime Shortage; Gerd Hardach, The First World War, 1914-1918 (Berke­ ley: