hicles to the list.25 Invasion and Operational Interdiction The first three strategies-the industrial web, Douhet, and strategic inter­ diction-were intended primarily for coercive purposes. The Western Allies thought of a large-scale invasion of Europe primarily as an alternative to co­ ercion, a means to achieve decisive military victory if coercion failed. A major ground offensive could also coerce, however, if the fureat or the actual conquest of part of the German homeland led to the complete surrender of Germany. 23 Since individual industries depended on networks that pooled electricity rather than on single generating plants, specific industrial regions had to be deprived of electricity in gen­ eral to impede production. Study of the industrial regions in the Ruhr and central Germany revealed that a large number of targets (sixty) would have to be destroyed and kept inopera­ tive to immobilize production in the local region. Similarly, internal transportation within Germany had such a large cushion that production would not be significantly curtailed until more than 30 percent was taken out of service. Craven and Cate, Army Air Forces in World War II 2: 351-55. 24 USSBS, The German Anti-Friction Bearings Industry (Washington, D.C.: GPO, 1947). 25 Many targets, with the possible exception of electric power generating and switching equipment, could be reconstructed or repaired within a period of two to four weeks. Accord­ ingly, targets capable of being regenerated had to be hit at least twelve times during the six­ month period. Hansell, Air Plan That Defeated Hitler, pp. 86, 163.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 98 --- Germany, 1942-1945 Table 20. Target priorities Total targets AWPD-l German air force" electric power transportation oil morale AWPD-2 German air force submarine yards transportation electric power oil rubber 177 CBO German air force submarine yards ball bearings oil rubber military vehicles , Includes aircraft factories, engine plants, al