that could be delivered to a theater of operations. The crucial assumption, however, was that there exists some small, and therefore inex­ pensive to destroy, target set that produces a key item or service indispens­ able to the economy as a whole, such as national transportation and power resources. Moreover, economic infrastructures themselves were systems with critical nodes. Thus, strategic bombing planners could bring an entire economy to a halt by researching its industrial structure to determine which supplies were used in a wide variety of industries and which of the sources of supplies could be destroyed with least effort. The next instance of the critical component theory applied it more nar­ rowly to military production, as opposed to the economy as a whole. The Committee of Operations Analysts, a group of leading civilians (mainly economists, political scientists, and industrial managers) and air planners (including some from the ACTS) recommended targets for strategic bomb­ ing in Germany in 1943. The COAbelieved it was beyond current capabili­ ties to cause a general industrial collapse and that such a strategy would not in any case achieve decisive military effects quickly. The analysts rec- 35 Williamson Murray, "British and German Air Doctrines between the Wars," Air Univer­ sity Review 31 (March-April 1980): 39-58; Posen, Sources of Military Doctrine, p. 214. 36 On Germany's goals during the interwar years, see Williamson Murray, The Change in the European Balance of Power, 1938-1939: The Path to Ruin (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1984); E. M. Robertson, Hitler's Pre-war Policy and Military Plans, 1933-1939 (New York: Citadel, 1963); Burton H. Klein, Germany's Economic Preparations for War (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1959).  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 72 --- Bombing to Win ognized that the civilian sectors of the economy could absorb so much damage that the combat power of German forces could not be reduced until the h