rgets.2 They are wrong. Modern war economies are not brittle. Although individual plants can be destroyed, the opponent can reduce the effects by dispersing production of important items and stockpiling key raw materials and machinery. Attackers never an­ ticipate all the adjustments and work-arounds defenders can devise, partly because they often rely on analysis of peacetime economies and partly be­ cause intelligence of the detailed structure of the target economy is always incomplete. Further, even substantial reductions in the production of essential items may have no military impact because the opponent can economize by eliminating lower-priority uses first. That is why, even if strategic bombing aims at denial, it usually punishes civilians before it reduces military capability. To contribute meaningfully to denial, strategic bombing must practically eliminate produc­ tion of crucial items,3 and even coercers much stronger than their opponents have found it impossible to do SO.4 Even if it could be done, considerable time would elapse before lost production would seriously affect the opponent's combat strength at the front, and only if theater stocks were drawn down by si­ multaneous intense pressure by friendly land and theater air forces. Thus, strategic bombing can matter only in long wars of attrition which are decided by overall material superiority, not in short conflicts fought mainly with existing stocks. Even then, it matters only against mechanized conventional forces with heavy logistic requirements, not against guerrillas. And in this case, it matters only if simultaneous intense pressure by friendly land and theater air forces generates large needs for replacement of equip­ ment and weapons. After all that, it still takes considerable time to wear down theater stocks enough to meaningfully reduce the opponent's combat power. Still, strategic air power cannot be decisive. The most it can do is to reduce the costs that friendly land and theater air