llied landing at Normandy gradually narrowed in a series of meetings in 1943 until, at Quebec in Au­ gust, the plan was adopted that was finally executed as Operation Over- 26 Michael Howard, Grand Strategy IV: August 1942-September 1943 (London: HMSO, 1972), p. 197· 27 For a superb biography of World War II American Air Leaders, see David Mets, Master of Airpower: General Carl A. Spaatz (Novato, Calif.: Presidio Press, 1981).  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 99 --- Bombing to Win lord in June 1944.28 The plan was to defeat the German army on the ground in a two-step process. The first was to obtain a lodgment on the Continent. Thus, the cross-Channel invasion aimed to seize and develop an administrative base from which future offensive operations could be launched, not to win a decisive battle against German forces in northwest Europe. The second step made the Ruhr, the industrial heart of Germany, the primary objective. After sweeping through western France, the Allies would advance into Germany along two routes, one to the north of the Ardennes directly into the Ruhr and one to the south of the Ardennes into Saarbruecken. Success on either axis was expected to force enemy with­ drawals from both areas.29 To support land conquest, air power would increasingly focus on the German army in an attempt to impose operational interdiction on Ger­ man land operations. Unlike strategic interdiction, operational interdic­ tion would attack the last steps in the logistic chain by targeting finished military goods and the means of bringing them to the battlefield.3D Oper­ ational interdiction target sets included road, rait and canal transporta­ tion in Germany and especially in France, oit and fielded forces. When necessary, strategic bombers might also be diverted to direct tactical sup­ port to specific Allied ground operations. Despite disagreements over priorities, in the event the Allies devoted considerable effort to all these targets.31 28 On planning for the cro