te a great power's societyY The adjustment to gradually accumulating damage which is possible under conventional attack cannot be made either, for the destruction can be inflicted all at once. Further, the nuclear revolu­ tion largely overturns the effects of nationalism on the conduct of war. The willingness of individuals to bear costs and risks for national goals loses all meaning when large-scale nuclear war endangers not only national interests or fractions of the population but, for all practical purposes, the existence of the nation itself.44 Accordingly, it is hardly surprising that during the nu­ clear age publics have not been enthusiastic about pursuit of national goals at the risk of nuclear war. Risk strategies, which are not effective in conventional disputes, can be successful in nuclear disputes. Since the destructive power of nuclear weapons magnifies the risks the coercer can threaten beyond levels that any state can accept, perfect credibility is not required. In nuclear disputes, risk strategies are likely to be preferred over punishment strategies. If a nuclear threat is credible at all, the threat alone, or a few attacks, is likely to be suffi­ cient; actually executing large-scale nuclear attacks would be coercive overkill. Moreover, intensive nuclear punishment runs the risk of destroy­ ing all governmental authority in the target state, making it impossible to terminate the conflict. 45 Nuclear punishment would be tantamount to geno­ cide, which except in cases of the most extreme ethnic or religious hatreds is likely to be repulsive to the coercer's citizenry, as well as to third parties. Fi­ nally, nuclear punishment is likely to cause collateral damage, including ra­ dioactive contamination, beyond the boundaries of the target state, possibly reaching even the attacking state and its allies.46 By contrast, denial makes little difference in nuclear cases. Nuclear weapons do increase the coercer's ability to inflict military as well as civi