ting. The winters in Germany are cold and clothing is 10 The basic aim of AWPD-l was "the application of air power for the breakdown of the in­ dustrial and economic structure of Germany. This conception involves the selection of a sys­ tem of objectives vital to continued German war effort, and to the means of livelihood of the German people, and tenaciously concentrating all bombing toward destruction of those ob­ jectives." By these means, AWPD-l hoped to achieve the surrender of Germany "even in the event of Russian collapse." Office of the Chief of the Army Air Forces, AWPD-l: Munitions Re­ quirements of the Army Air Forces, 12 August 1941, pp. 1-2, USAF Historical Research Agency; Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala., 145.82-1. That AWPD-l should draw on the industrial web the­ ory is hardly surprising given that its authors (Laurence S. Kuter, Kenneth N. Walker, Harold L. George, and Haywood S. Hansell Jr.) had all taught at the Air Corps Tactical School.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 93 --- Bombing to Win becoming scarce. Breakdown of the transportation system would interfere with the orderly distribution of foodstuffs and common utilities." In short, the idea was to cause a shortage of key components, which would halt nearly all of Germany's production of manufactured goods, military as well as civilian.l1 Although this strategy contained elements of both punishment and de­ nial, the punitive elements were dominant. Advocates occasionally alluded to how strategic air attack would support a future land invasion, but air of­ ficers doubted that the Normandy invasion would succeed and believed that "if the air offensive is successful, a land offensive may not be neces­ sary."12 Whereas military collapse was also expected, the major justification for this doctrine was the expectation that economic devastation would also undermine civilian morale.13 Bombing Cities British air strategy consistently stressed direct attacks on German popu­ lation centers as the key