t, most often judged by visible destruction. As technology improves bombing accuracy, air power necessarily becomes more combat effective, because fewer sorties are neces­ sary to destroy targets. At best, measures of combat efficiency are measures of how quickly or cheaply forces perform military missions. They do not gauge whether mission success will achieve political purposes. Measuring the overall success of an air campaign only in terms of combat effectiveness can cause one futile mission to be succeeded by another, while more worthwhile missions are neglected. Against Japan, precision bombing in 1944 was condemned as a failure because it produced no visible damage to industrial plants, and incendiary attacks against Japanese cities begin­ ning in March 1945 were hailed as a great success because burned acreage was easy to observe and quick to accumulate. However, incendiary bomb­ ing ultimately made little difference to the war's outcome. Because Japan's main industries had already been shut down by the naval blockade, their destruction merely made unused rubble bounce, and the Japanese govern­ ment was willing to countenance the civilian costs that the fire bombing caused. Bombers could have contributed more to the collapse of the Japa­ nese economy had they been dedicated to a third mission: mine laying 1 Barry Watts has proposed a somewhat similar categorization between combat effective­ ness and "second order effects." This broader concept than strategic effectiveness includes all noncombat consequences whether or not they affect political goals. Thus, they are less useful for our present purpose. James G. Roche and Barry D. Watts, "Choosing Analytic Measures," Journal of Strategic Studies 14 (June 1991): 165-2°9. [57]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 58 --- Bombing to Win along shipping lanes. Thus, since the goal of coercion is political change, my discussion of coercive air strategies focuses on strategic effectivness, not combat effectiveness. CO