uman and industrial resources, the deter­ minants of ultimate victory are industrial capacity and population size. Although the second leading industrial power in 1938, Germany was excep­ tionally vulnerable to the combined attrition efforts of the United States, Great Britain, and the Soviet Unipn. A~ Table 22 shows, Germany and its partners were outmatched two to one in both industrial resources and population. In 1938 Germany, Italy, and Japan accounted for 20.7 percent of world manufac­ turing production, compared to 51.1 percent for the Allies.'" In 1937 the pop­ ulations of Germany, Italy, and Japan totalled 183 million, compared to 344 million for the United States, Great Britain, and the Soviet Union.78 The most serious of Germany's vulnerabilities was manpower (see Table 23). Although military production remained quite high until the very end, Germany no longer had an army that could use it. Casualties from 1941 to the end of the war were more than double the army's size in 1941. As a re­ sult, virtually all units fell more 'and more under strength as the war contin­ ued. Even more important, the quality of replacements progressively declined, and Germany was forced to rely on leaders as well as soldiers who were increasingly unskilled and unfit and often killed before they had time to learn from experience?9 At the same time, the experience and competence of the Allied armies, which had much deeper population reserves, im­ proved, and the immense productivity of Allied war industries equipped them with aircraft, fighting vehicles, and other heavy weapons that Ger­ many could not match.80 As a result, from mid-1944 onward, the Wehrmacht was no longer able to contain major Allied offensives. The question became 76 Russell F. Weigley, The American Way of War: A History of United States Military Strategy and Policy (New York: Macmillan, 1973), pp. 312-62. 77 I do not include France on either side. Adding France to the Axis powers only raises their total to 25,