essentials of their lives-the supply of food, shelter, light, water, sanitation, and the rest. ... Bombardment from on high must fit strictly to the pattern of aerial blockade, systematically wrecking the imple­ ments and channels of normal life until a complete breakdown of the will to 20 M. S. Fairchild (instructor), "Air Force: National Economic Structure," April 5, 1939, pp. B--9, USAFHRA, file K248.2019A-1O. 21 M. S. Fairchild (instructor), "Air Force: New York Industrial Area," April 6, 1939, pp. 3, 12, 14, 15-21, USAFHRA, file K248.2019A-12. 22 Wesley Frank Craven and James Lea Cate, The Army Air Forces in World War II (Washing­ ton D.C.: GPO, 1948), 1: 50-52.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 65 --- Coercive Air Power fight and the ability to fight is accomplished." In contrast to a naval block­ ade that aims to reduce the flow of goods into an area, an aerial blockade aims at the inverse, to increase the flow of people out of cities.23 Three factors drove the American interwar air strategy.24 First, unlike the RAF, which was created during World War I, and the Luftwaffe, which was not created until the late interwar years, the air force in the United States fought a protracted battle for autonomy throughout the entire period and did not actually win it until after World War II. Thus, the pioneers of air doc­ trine had to demonstrate that air power could achieve cheaply a military purpose that the other services could achieve only at unacceptable cost. They also had to show that air power was more efficient (and therefore more worthy of resources) than sea or land power. These pressures led the pioneers of U.S. air doctrine, such as General William Mitchell and officers at the Air Corps Tactical School, to argue during the 1920S that bombing at­ tacks on the enemy's civilian population at the beginning of a war would ef­ fectively destroy the enemy's will to resist, producing a far cheaper victory than the Army could achieve. The choice of the industrial