ear in individual cases. For these purposes, detailed case studies are re­ quired. In the next six chapters I intensively investigate five disputes involving strategic bombing campaigns. Chapter 3 explains the major coercive air strategies that have been developed and used by coercers in this century. Chapters 4 through 8 show how these strategies were actually implemented in five of the largest coercive air campaigns: U.s. coercion of Japan in World War II, of North Korea and China in the Korean War, of North Vietnam in the Vietnam War, and of Iraq in the Gulf War, and Allied coercion of Ger­ many in World War II. Why did I select these cases? The purpose of this test is to discover whether states make decisions to accept or reject coercer's demands accord­ ing to the patterns expected by the denial theory. To compare the effects of different military threats, I first control for the credibility of the coercer's threat by comparing the largest air campaigns in the universe, which are those in which the coercer's willingness to attack is least in doubt. Next, I seek cases that test relative effects of civilian and military vulnerability es-  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 54 --- Bombing to Win pecially well. Accordingly, I investigate one dispute from each of the three key boxes in Table 3: Japan is a case of very high civilian and military vul­ nerability, Korea is a cas~ of medium military but very high civilian vulner­ ability, and Vietnam is a case of very high military but medium civilian vulnerability. The Gulf War is included because it is the first real test of a new coercive air strategy, decapitation, which seeks to achieve both punish­ ment and denial effects by destroying a small collection of crucial leadership targets. Finally, Germany is a case in which denial success did not produce coercive success, and I investigate it in order to discover whether the rea­ sons for this failure require revision of the theory. All the case studies are structur