nerally assumed to be equally high for both sides. See Ellsberg, "Theory and Practice of Blackmail." Similarly, Jervis, "Why Nuclear Superiority Doesn't Matter," Political Science Quarterly 94 (1979): 617-33; and Glenn H. Snyder and Paul Diesing, Conflict among Nations (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1977), argue that re­ solve is primarily a function of interests.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 5 --- Why Study Military Coercion? vulnerability of the adversary's civilian population to air attack. Advocates of this view claim that coercive leverage derives from punishing large masses of civilians.lO The fourth theory points to the balance of forces: strik­ ing military targets in the adversary's homeland shifts the military balance, thereby compelling the victim to modify its behavior.l1 The key problem with these theories is that they are single-factor expla­ nations that by themselves have limited explanatory power. Consider how each falls short as an explanation for the failure and success of coercive air power in the Vietnam War. If the balance of resolve had been crucial in Vietnam, why did Lyndon Johnson's coercive bombing from 1965 to 1968 fail but Richard Nixon's in 1972 succeed? The North Vietnamese were sim­ ilarly determined to prevail in the two periods, and if anything, American resolve declined with the passage of time. Thus, the success of coercion does not correlate with a shift in determination toward the assailant. The balance-of-interests theory also fails. Regardless of how one appraises the geopolitical interests of the United States and North Vietnam in South Viet­ nam, those interests did not change over time and so cannot account for variation in the outcome of the casesY The third theory, civilian vulnera­ bility to air attack, is also inadequate, because the vulnerability of North Vietnam's population actually decreased as time went by. A comparable weakness confounds the final theory, changing the military balance through air