s effective more often, but success depends on the coercer's ability to undermine the opponent's strategy for protecting or capturing the territory at issue. If the coercer lacks the capability to attack the specific vulnerabili­ ties of the opponent's military strategy, denial will fail. Consequently, no one coercive strategy is likely to succeed under all circumstances, and in some cases no effective strategy may be available.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 39 --- Explaining Military Coercion WHY STUDY STRATEGIC AIR POWER? Of the major components of modern military power-land, sea, and air power-each of which can be used for coercive purposes, air power, partic­ ularly strategic bombing, most cogently reveals the relative effectiveness of different coercive strategies. The utility of each of the major instruments of military coercion has been modified over time by changes in the organiza­ tion of the modern nation-states.50 Democratization and industrialization, in particular, have led to changes in military technologies, the costs of war, and the ability of modern societies to absorb these costs. Land power has always been a formidable coercive tool, but whereas it was used primarily for punishment in the Middle Ages, now its role is al­ most pure denial because massive growth in the size of armies allows them to form continuous fronts that shield society from punishment as long as they are undefeated. Sea power is the weakest instrument of coercion, po­ tent only against states whose economies are exceptionally dependent on trade. Further, because naval blockades affect enemy economies as a whole, they have both punishment and denial effects, whose relative weight co­ ercers cannot fully control. Air power, by contrast, the newest coercive in­ strument, has grown more and more powerful as both aircraft and weapons have improved. Also, air power can be employed much more selectively than the other two instruments for either punishment 'or denial. In feudal