fore, they wanted a lim­ ited surrender to the west which would permit continued military resistance on the eastern front. They saw removing Hitler as both a gesture to the Western Allies and a dagger in the heart of an ideology they de­ spisedPo The resistance had frequent communications with the Western Al­ lies, although the westerners never opened serious negotiations. The most 127 Armstrong, Unconditional Surrender, p. 195. 128 General Heinz Guderian, "The Interrelationship between the Eastern and Western Fronts," in World War II German Military Studies, ed. Donald s. Detwiler (New York: Garland, 1979),21: 35· 129 Wheeler-Bennett, Nemesis of Power, p. 598. 130 Ulrich von Hassell wrote in his diary on 27 December 1943: "With Hitler the war will certainly be lost because it will be fought to a catastrophic end by both sides .... The one definite point upon which the other side is united is that Hitler must first of all be laid low . . . . Only after this goal has been reached can (and will) their differences come to the sur­ face." Quoted in ibid., p. 592.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 135 --- Bombing to Win detailed offer was in May 1944, when Beck sent Dulles a plan for simultane­ ous action by the Anglo-American forces and the conspirators, with the ob­ ject of facilitating the occupation of Germany and at the same time holding the Soviets on the eastern front. After the putsch, three western airborne di­ visions were to occupy Berlin while large-scale landings were made on the French and German coasts. London and Washington rejected the offer, de­ manding surrender to all the Allies simultaneously.l3l Why Germany Did Not Surrender The main reason that German army leaders continued to fight after they determined that defeat was inevitable was fear of Soviet occupation, which they believed would be exceedingly brutal, partly in retaliation for German crimes in the east. Because of their own direct and indirect participation, they knew they could not esc