Zhukov to the front, not only to collect information but also to issue orders on the spot. 63 STRATEGIES AND CASES All the coercive air strategies I have described were used in one or more of the cases studied in Chapters 4 through 8 (see Table 5). In most cases the coercer pursued several different strategies either in series or in parallel. The case studies detail the effects of each strategy on the target state's willing­ ness to make demanded concessions in order to determine which strategies were responsible for coercive successes. 63 Georgi K. Zhukov, Marshal Zhukov's Greatest Battles (New York: Harper and Row, 1969), P·44· [86]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 87 --- [8] Germany, 1942-1945 The end of World War II in Europe is perhaps the most important coercive failure to study, for it is not predicted by the parsimonious version of the de­ nial theory. Although the Allies successfully undermined its military strat­ egy, Germany still did not surrender. Why did this nation, under continuous attack on all fronts by enormously superior enemy forces and suffering in­ tense air bombardment, continue to fight until its forces were incapable of coherent operations and the country was completely occupied? In contrast to 1918, when the German government sought an armistice rather than con­ tinue fighting under hopeless conditions, the Nazi government never gave up and had to be completely obliterated. This coercive failure was tremen­ dously costly for all sides. In the last ten months of the war alone, U.S. forces in the Atlantic theater suffered 583,000 dead and wounded, the British over a quarter million, and the Soviets and Germans well over a million each, not counting millions of civiiian casualties due to aerial bombing, ground fight­ ing, displacement of refugees, and the continuing operation of the "final so­ lution."l From the standpoint of coercion, what matters is why Germany did not surrender even though the Allies had both inflicted tremendous puni