lly unattractive ground campaigns. Civilians also some足 times turn to strategic bombing for revenge or to maintain morale when the public is suffering heavy costs, as did Churchill against Germany and the United States against Japan in World War 11.40 Finally, it is hard for the other 37 Strategic bombing was the justification for the creation of the RAF in 1917, the quasi in足 dependence of the u.s. Army Air Forces during World War II, and the establishment of the independent U.S. Air Force in 1947. 38 Carl H. Builder, The Icarus Syndrome: The Role of Air Power Theory in the Evolution and Fate of the U.S. Air Force (New Brunswick, N.J.: Transactions, 1994), pp. 141, 204. 39 Russia has an independent air defense service, separate from both the army and the air force, which controls both interceptor aircraft and surface-to-air missiles for homeland de足 fense against strategic attack. Tactical air defense is divided between the army and air force in the same way as in Western militaries. 40 Philip E. Converse and Howard Schuman, " 'Silent Majorities' and the Vietnam War," Scientific American 222 (June 1970): 21; Harvey B. Tress, "Churchill, the First Berlin Raids, and the Blitz: ANew Interpretation," Militargeschichtliche Mitteilungen 32, no. 2 (1980): 65-78; John W. Dower, War without Mercy: Race and Power in the Pacific War (New York: Pantheon, 1986).  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 161 --- Bombing to Win services to object to anything that might reduce casualties. In Desert Storm, General Schwarzkopf took the initiative to request a strategic bombing plan; it did not have to be imposed on him. Bad strategy thrives on ignorance, which is a special problem for coercive air power. One property common to every single coercive air campaign is that none of the coercers took the problem of coercion seriously enough in the years prior to the actual dispute to dedicate analytic resources to under足 standing it. In particular, the mechanisms by which military effects are