y 1944, they occur in the later stages, after battlefield defeats. The reason is that coup plotters want to con­ trol the country, not just remove the old guard. Unless the war is already clearly lost, the successor regime could be blamed for losing the war and quickly deposed in turn. 57 More specifically, coups generally require the cooperation of the army, for only the army has the power to overcome the ruler's security forces. At a minimum, a segment of the army must actively participate and the rest must tacitly cooperate. In a conflict with a foreign power, such cooperation is unlikely. Armies are typically among the most patriotic national institu­ tions and especially unlikely to cooperate with the enemy. Moreover, armies are responsible for winning wars. Since a coup will interfere with that goal, it is not surprising that armies have been interested in coups only when war is clearly lost and their leaders can blame the government for losing it. Even if a state is ripe for a coup, moreover, disabling communications is not sufficient to provoke one or to ensure its success. Knowing the leader's location and overcoming his security forces are far more important. Suc­ cessful coups always involve the arrest or murder of the top leader because rulers can commonly summon loyal forces to oppose the coup by meeting with them face-to-face. Thus, coup attempts do not pose significantly easier intelligence problems for foreign powers than assassinations. Indeed, air at­ tack against national telecommunications can complicate the mission of coup plotters because they too are denied access to communication net­ works as they plan and execute operations.58 Finally, coups backed by the opponent in a serious international conflict are among the least likely to succeed. International enmity makes foreign co­ operation with the indigenous military difficult before the coup and pro­ vokes resistance to the insurgents by the people and army during it, which is why the Iranian