ans­ portation and communications throughout the theater, completely isolating front forces from rear support. Even then, achieving a breakthrough could be costly and time-consuming. The purpose of close air support, which attacks frontline fielded forces, is to thin the front, creating weak spots that the attacker's ground forces can exploit. Ground support is most effective when fronts are static rather than fluid. When fronts are static, ground support is the most effective denial strat­ egy because achieving a breakthrough is the only way to thwart the oppo­ nent's strategy without waging a costly war of attrition. In essence, air power adds additional firepower that can be used to create holes or to stop initial penetrations in a front. Air power has the advantage that it can be concentrated more easily in space and time than ground power because it ranges farther from supply bases and sees over the horizon. Thus, air power makes it more difficult for the defender to anticipate where the main weight will initially fall and, likewise, easier for the attacker to shift weight between separate axes when an advance is in progress. When fronts are so static that breakthroughs are impossible, however, air power's ability to concentrate is less valuable than simply the aggregate firepower it adds to ground weapons. In this situation air power is likely to be less cost-effective than ground firepower, especially artillery. When fronts are fluid, air support, while important, is less crucial to the success of a ground offensive. Once spearheads penetrate a front and head for rear areas, they no longer face solid resistance as they did at the front. The attacker seeks to reach and destroy the defender's rear logistics and communications centers, overwhelming weak enemy concentrations that may be encountered on the way and bypassing stronger ones. To defeat the attacker, the defender attempts to reestablish a continuous front to block further penetration and to counteratta