enters. Targets could include fielded forces; theater-level command, communications, and logistics; weapons plants; and critical raw materials used in war production. Denial missions generally require pinpoint accuracy, and are likely to be flown in daylight if air superiority allows. Munitions would include fewer incendiaries and more high explosives, and precision­ guided munitions (PGMs) might be used if available. The campaign would be prosecuted at the maximum intensity the coercer could sustain and might re­ strike certain critical targets many times to prevent their repair. The ideal decapitation campaign would attack key leadership facilities and communications networks in the opponent's political centers, in addi­ tion to vital nodes in a nation's economic infrastructure such as electric power and petroleum refining. Since many leadership and communications targets are room size, PGMs are required. Because the total number of tar­ gets is very small, the campaign would take only a few days. Although air strategies can be defined in terms of the targets to be struck and the timing of their destruction, this approach is not fully satisfactory. Co-location and multipurpose economic installations make these distinc­ tions difficult to apply. Residential, transportation, and industrial targets may be located close together, so that-absent PGMs-any attack on one may damage the others. More important, certain economic targets, such as electric power and transportation systems, might be attacked either because of the harm this would do the civilian economy or because destroying them might reduce war production. A second and more satisfactory criterion focuses on the mechanisms by which the destruction of a target set is supposed to translate into changed enemy behavior. Mechanisms provide the intellectual guidance for opera­ tional air planners who then translate strategy into actual campaigns with the forces at their disposal. This alternative schematic for identi