r supply, it did not significantly reduce public health because personal health habits, medical services, and gov­ ernment emergency measures controlled the spread of disease. USSBS, The Effect of Bombing on Health and Medical Care in Germany (Washington, D.C.: GPO, 1947), pp. 230-37. For an analysis of the civilian and military effects of attacking electric power, see Thomas E. Griffith Jr., "Strategic Attack of National Electric Systems" (Thesis, Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala.: School of Advanced Airpower Studies, 1993).  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 70 --- Bombing to Win ing theater military targets until the German army had been pushed back to its borders, after which the final "decision will only be gained by direct ac­ tion against the hostile centers."33 Several organizations developed ideas about how to use air power to enhance the prospects for victory on the bat­ tlefield and then as a way to achieve independent political effects. Though some of these strategies, such as interwar Luftwaffe air doctrine, did not consider political effects at all, they are important instances of coercive air strategies and were in some cases extremely effective. For instance, the Dutch government surrendered on 14 May 1940 although it still retained substantial military forces in the field because it was persuaded that the froots could not be held under continued Luftwaffe bombing. There are three main kinds of denial strategies. The first to be developed was direct support of ground forces. All the major combatants in World War I used air power for such purposes, includ­ ing operational reconnaissance and attacks on enemy front lines and logistic centers immediately behind the front. These were ad hoc efforts that threw newly available capabilities at existing problems. The first attempt to artic­ ulate an integrated theory of the role of air power in land warfare occurred in interwar Germany. German thinking on air power held that bombers should support the army's ab