eir special expertise gives militaries important advantages in avoiding evaluation. Military expertise is largely confined to military in足 stitutions; outside evaluators are usually less knowledgeable about military operations than the military itself, putting them in a poor position to com足 pete with in-house evaluations, which may be corrupted, ignored, or kept to a minimum. Further, the need for secrecy means that information about the likely success or failure of military strategies is usually tightly controlled, making evaluation difficult.39 In wartime, when any security breach can cost lives, secrecy becomes tighter and evaluation correspondingly harder. Suppression of criticism is made easier because neither the elites nor the public wants to recognize the possibility of failure. When confronted with high-stakes decisions and ambiguous information, people normally prefer to discount the risks rather than confront the possibility of disaster. Evi- 36 Philip Knightly; The First Casualty (New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1975); David Wise, The Politics of Lying: Government Deception, Secrecy, and Power (New York: Random House, 1973); David M. Kennedy, Over Here: The First World War and American Society (New York: Oxford University Press, 1980), chap. 1. 37 Van Evera, "Causes of War," pp. 683-85. 38 Aaron Wildavsky; "The Self-Evaluating Organization," Public Administration Review 32 (September-October 1972): 509-20. Van Evera, "Causes of War," pp. 453-99. On obstacles to military innovation, see Barry R. Posen, The Sources of Military Doctrine (Ithaca: Cornell Uni足 versity Press, 1984). 39 Edward Shils, The Torment of Secrecy (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1956).  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 35 --- Explaining Military Coercion dence that current policies may lead to unacceptable costs and risks tends to be ignored or discredited until its import is indisputably clear.4o Additional reasons why coercion tends to come late include unwilling足 ne