eapons, punishment strategies never ac­ tually "kill the hostage"; damage accumulates slowly, so the coercer can al­ ways inflict still more by continuing the assault. Second, for any given level of coercer capabilities, damage threatened under a risk-based strategy cannot exceed the actual damage imposed by a punishment strategy. In fact, by further slowing the already slow pace at which damage accumulates, risk strategies may improve the ability of op­ ponents to adjust and so may be unable to threaten even as much damage as punishment strategies. In principle, risk-based strategies could be used to threaten denial, but in practice they hardly ever are. The slow and pre­ dictable pace provides the target state with too many opportunities to adjust tactics or regenerate losses, making this strategy inherently ineffective. The one exception is the unusual case where the target cannot regenerate dam­ aged capabilities. Iraq in the fall of 1990 may have been in this position, hav­ ing no indigenous capability to produce high-technology equipment and being subject to an effective arms blockade. Third, the pattern of gradually increasing damage which is supposed to increase the credibility of threatened future damage is actually more likely to reduce credibility because the coercer's restraint tends to be attributed to political constraints rather than free strategic choice. Instead of being con­ vinced of the coercer's resolve to inflict maximum damage if demands are not met, the opponent is more likely to be convinced that the coercer will never escalate far above current restrained levels. The result is that the costs and risks perceived by the target state are likely to be much lower than in­ tended by the coercer and lower than those produced by a punishment strategy with correspondingly less coercive effect. In fact, risk strategies are rarely used except when coercers are subject to political constraints that prevent them from waging full-blown punishment campaig