acker's concentration and giving the defender time to counterconcen­ trate. Likewise, disrupting the defender's logistics, reinforcements, and command and control delays reorganization of the defense, so that the at­ tacker can punch through before the weak point is strengthened. Once a breakthrough is achieved, the main tasks of the attacker are to penetrate deeply into the opponent's rear and annihilate the defender's rear-area lo­ gistic and communications networks; the main task of the defender is to block the breakthrough, counterattack the vulnerable flanks of the penetrat­ ing spearheads, and form a new front. For both sides, timely movement of reserve forces and lateral movement of frontline forces is crucial. Accord­ ingly, the more air power can disrupt logistic networks, reinforcements, and command headquarters behind the front lines, the more it stops the move­ ment and coordination of forces throughout the theater, and the more it can affect the outcome. In contrast, efforts to achieve operational paralysis by attacking rear-area targets is much less effective when fronts are static, as they are when either natural obstacles or force concentrations are so dense that breakthroughs  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 78 --- Bombing to Win and flank attacks are virtually impossible. Timely movement of reinforce­ ments is less critical because strong fronts act as a cushion to permit even delayed forces to enter the battle in time to be effective. As a result, partial operational paralysis, which could significantly affect outcomes when fronts are fluid, weakens the opponent's ability to maintain a static front much Jess. For operational paralysis to matter when fronts are static, the at­ tacker must achieve virtually complete destruction of the opponent's trans­ portation and communications throughout the theater, completely isolating front forces from rear support. Even then, achieving a breakthrough could be costly and time-consuming. The purpose of cl