ular regime, the 14 Interviews by William Arkin, quoted in "Defeat of Iraq Sparks Debate on Which Air Role Was Crucial," Aviation Week and Space Technology, 27 January 1992, pp. 62-63. 15 In addition, most plants were restruck from two to five times each because imagery could not confirm levels of damage. Gulf War Air Power Survey, Operations and Effects and Ef­ fectiveness (Washington, D.C.: GPO, 1993), vol. 2, pt. 2, pp. 298, 306. 16 Walid Doleh et al., "Electrical Facilities Survey," in International Study Team, Health and Welfare in Iraq after the Gulf Crisis: An In-depth Assessment (October 1991), p. 1.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 155 --- Bombing to Win lack of communications not only inhibits the bolstering of national morale but also facilitates rebellion on the part of dissident elements.!7 Vulnerability of the enemy regime can also be enhanced by direct attacks on security forces, their headquarters, and even their files. The ability of PGMs to modulate punishment also facilitates decapitation because civilian hardship can be timed to coincide with attacks on government anticoup resources. Decapitation has the advantage of minimizing collateral damage, and more important, the critical target sets are so small that it seems a war can be won by a few squadrons of F-117S in a matter of days. Like the Texas Ranger slogan, "One riot, one Ranger," decapitation promises "One war, one raid." Accuracy alone, however, cannot make decapitation a viable coercive air strategy because the ability to destroy the target sets is not the problem. Pre­ cisely because decapitation target sets are so small, they can easily be de­ stroyed even without precision weapons. IS Decapitation is primarily a problem of intelligence, not combat effectiveness. Consider political decapitation. The core problem is obtaining the intelli­ gence needed to kill enemy leaders who are making every effort to evade detection. Further, endangering regimes by cutting communications be­ twee