h a foreign power typically unleashes political forces (such as nationalism and fear of treasonous behavior) which make collective action against even unpopular regimes unlikely until the opportunity for military victory has been lost. Although decapitation might reduce a regime's ability to monitor and communicate with the population, it is unlikely to disrupt these functions for long unless the country is also occupied. The redundancy and miniatur­ ization of modem telecommunications (telephone, television, and radio) makes it practically impossible to cut all the communication links between elites for any appreciable time. The destruction of civilian telecommunica­ tions can be hampered by housing transmitters in facilities that that attack­ ers may want to avoid (hospitals, schools, and churches). Even if air power destroys the telecommunication network, it is not clear that a leader's abil­ ity to talk to his population would be limited in any meaningful way. News­ papers alone could keep communication open. Nor would the destruction of telecommunications free the population from fear of surveillance or 55 Seweryn Bialer, Stalin's Successors: Leadership, Stability, and Change in the Soviet Union (New York: Cambridge University Press, 1980). 56 Gulf War Air Power Survey, Summary Volume (Washington, D.C.: U.S. Air Force, 1993), p. 20.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 83 --- Coercive Air Power reprisal, because the visibility, brutality, and perhaps even size of domestic security services can be increased. Decapitation is also not likely to provoke coups, which, like popular re­ volts, are rare in wars and never occur in the early stages. When they hap­ pen, as when Mussolini was successfully overthrown in July 1943 or the famous attempt was made on Hitler in July 1944, they occur in the later stages, after battlefield defeats. The reason is that coup plotters want to con­ trol the country, not just remove the old guard. Unless the war is already clearly lost