oned. 56 By contrast to land power, sea power has usually been a weaker instru­ ment of coercion. It can contribute to the application of land power. Com­ mand of the sea allows amphibious operations against enemy coasts or overseas possessions, while denying these types of operations to the oppo­ nent. The value of amphibious operations has declined since the industrial revolution, however, both because railroads improved the efficiency of land transportation and because increased army size and firepower have made landings much more likely to be stiffly opposed. Speaking against a pro­ posal to land on Germany's Baltic coast in 1914, a British general said, "The truth was that this class of operation possibly had some value a century ago, but now when they were excellent they were doomed to failure. Wherever 55 On Sherman's march, see John Bennett Walters, "General William T. Sherman and Total War," Journal of Southern History 14 (November 1948): 447-80; and Joseph T. Glatthaar, The March to the Sea and Beyond: Sherman's Troops in the Savannah and Carolinas Campaigns (New York: New York University Press, 1986). On the French occupation of the Ruhr, see Marc Trachtenberg, Reparation in World Politics: France and European Economic Diplomacy (New York: Columbia University Press, 1980). 56 Erich von Falkenhayn, The German General Staff and Its Decisions, 1914-1916 (New York: Dodd, Mead, 1920), p. 249; Michael Geyer, "German Strategy in the Age of Machine Warfare, 1914-1945," in Makers of Modern Strategy, ed. Peter Paret, 2d ed. (Princeton: Princeton Uni­ versity Press, 1986), pp. 530-37.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 42 --- Bombing to Win we threatened to land, the Germans could concentrate superior force.,,57 Al­ though many amphibious operations were mounted in World War II, they required huge ratios of superiority to succeed. Another way to coerce with sea power is gunboat diplomacy, which in­ volves local naval demonstrations in peacetime. Sea power's relat