and planned for a much larger strategic air campaign in 1919. During the interwar period, intense debates occurred in industrialized countries about the role of the bomber in a future war. Although all these debates were putatively focused on lessons learned from World War I com­ bat experience, British, German, and American air doctrines were actually 3 Douglas H. Robinson, The Zeppelin in Combat (London: Foulis, 1962), pp. 50, 52, 54. 4 Robin Highham, Air Power: A Concise History (New York: St. Martin's, 1972), p. 49; George H. Quester, Deterrence before Hiroshima (New York: Wiley, 1966), p. 28.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 60 --- Bombing to Win shaped by a combination of experience in that war, domestic politics, inter­ service rivalry, and grand strategy. The nature of these factors varied from country to country as did the doctrines that emerged. s One strategy, pivotal in all these debates, can be called the Douhet model, because it was first laid out in the writings of the Italian air theorist Giulio Douhet.6 The Douhet model rests on the belief that infliction of high costs can shatter civilian morale, unraveling the social basis of resistance, so that citizens pressure the government to abandon its territorial ambitions? The logic of this model proposes that civilian morale is damaged by exposing large portions of the population to the terror of destruction or by causing se­ vere shortages of consumer goods and services (such as food, textiles, and industrial goods). "Take the center of a large city," Douhet wrote, "and imagine what would happen among the civilian population during a single attack by a single bombing unit. ... I have no doubt that its impact on the people would be terrible." Lowered civilian morale, it is said, then produces internal turmoil: "What civil or military authority could keep order, public services functioning, and production going under such a threat?" Finally, domestic unrest causes grass-roots opposition against the h