gth continued to increase. Germany could still impose considerable attrition, but the unmatchable materiel superiority of its enemies meant that Germany could no longer stalemate the Allied advances. From this point onward, Allied advances were constrained more by weather and the need to establish forward logis­ tics bases for each successive advance than by German resistance.109 Attrition could succeed in averting the occupation of the German homeland only if one or more of the Allies could be deterred from prosecuting the war to the end by the prospect of even greater casualties than they had already suffered. In January 1945 the failure of the Ardennes offensive and the successful Soviet offensive in Poland increased Germany's military vulnerability to very high. Existing German forces could no longer hold any line for very long. Against a monthly demand of 1.5 million tank and antitank artillery rounds, January output was 367,000. The Luftwaffe had practically no avia­ tion gasoline. Even before the Soviet offensive in Poland, the force balance on the eastern front was hopelessly uneven; afterward, it was even worse (see Table 26). Although Allied losses continued at a steady rate during the last months of the war, German forces could no longer hope to impose attri­ tion for a protracted period of time because the distance between the eastern and western fronts had become so short that the Allied advances could be expected to meet in the very near future. no American and Russian forces meet at Torgau on the Elbe on 22 April. The dependent variables are the policy preferences of German leaders in each of the four main groups-Hitler, the Nazi civilian leadership, the mili­ tary leadership, and the resistance. Ideally, to determine the effect of in­ creasing civilian and military vulnerability on German decision making, we would measure the views of every important individual for each period when there was an increase in either type of vulnerability. Policy views a