rshalling yards, bridges, and ports but also against mov­ ing traffic, rolling stock, and cargo vessels. In contrast to attacks on critical components this form of strategk interdiction applies pressure as widely as possible in order to affect many industries simultaneously?9 The third major denial strategy, operational interdiction, attacks rear-area combat support functions in a theater of operations, the most important of which are tactical supply networks, reinforcements, and command-and­ control facilities. The purpose of these attacks is to induce operational paral­ ysis, which reduces the enemy's ability to move and coordinate forces in the theater. 37 Report of the Committee of Operations Analysts, 8 March 1943, quoted in Charles Web­ ster and Noble Frankland, The Strategic Air Offensive against Germany, 1939-1945 (London: HMSO, 1961),2: 213. 38 Bernard Brodie, Strategy in the Missile Age (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1959), pp. 110, 115, 116; Stefan T. Possony, Strategic Air Power: The Pattern of Dynamic Security (Wash­ ington: Infantry Journal Press, 1949), pp. 48-73. The Summary Report of the U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey implicitly accepted the critical component theory by suggesting that small, kef. industries, such as the German tetra-ethyl lead industry, should have been attacked. 9 The main advocate of systemwide economic attack in order to cause economic collapse is Mancur Olson Jr., "The Economics of Target Selection for the Combined Bomber Offen­ sive," Royal United Services Institution Journal 108 (November 1962): 308-14.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 73 --- Coercive Air Power This strategy also arose in World War II. As the date for the invasion of Europe grew nearer, the Allied air services were called upon to develop plans to support the ground offensive. It was necessary to shift away from both Douhet and strategic interdiction because these would require an un­ certainly long period to translate damage inflicted on specific