f the Gulf War, ed. Richard H. Shultz Jr. and Robert 1. Pfaltzgraff Jr. (Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala.: Air University Press, 1992), p. 65; see also Bruce A. Ross, "The Case for Targeting Leadership in War," Naval War College Review 46 (Winter 1993): 73--93. [79]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 80 --- Bombing to Win Three variants might be pursued, each with a slightly different mechanism for success. The first is leadership decapitation, seeking to kill specific leaders on the assumption that they are the driving force behind the war and that eliminating them will lead to peace, either because their successors are not as committed to the objectives of the war or because they fear that they too will become targets in tum. The second variant is political decapitation, the use of air power to create the circumstances in which domestic opposition groups overthrow the government and replace it with one more amenable to conces­ sions. Whether the mechanism is popular revolt or a coup d'etat, air power can increase the chances of success by attacking the regime's instruments of internal control (such as counterintelligence, security forces, and loyal mili­ tary units) and knocking out communications to isolate leaders from their sources of support. The last variant is military decapitation, which attacks na­ tional command and communications networks in order to isolate the central leadership from its units in the field, so that the leaders can no longer give strategic direction or adjust to enemy moves. Deprived of central direction, the enemy's field forces will collapse under even light military pressure. According to this strategy, a nation's leadership is like a body's brain: de­ stroy it and the body dies; isolate it and the body is paralyzed; confuse it and the body is uncontrollable. The logic of decapitation is part punishment and part denial. As a punishment strategy, it aims to overcome a key weak­ ness in such strategies: the increased ability of governme