dev­ astating attacks on the vast majority of a state's population simultaneously.42 40 Irving L. Janis and Leon Mann say that such "defensive avoidance" is likely whenever people face choices between highly unpalatable options, such as between making conces­ sions and military defeat. Janis and Mann, Decision Making: A Psychological Analysis of Conflict, Choice, and Commitment (New York: Free Press, 1977). For examples of failure to recognize im­ pending defeats, see Geoffrey Blainey, Causes of War (New York: Free Press, 1973); and Ikle, Every War Must End. 41 On sunk costs, see Ikle, Every War Must End. For discussion of the importance leaders at­ tach to protecting state reputation, see Robert Jervis, "Domino Beliefs and Strategic Behav­ ior," in Dominos and Bandwagons: Strategic Beliefs and Great Power Competition in the Eurasian Rimland, eds. Robert Jervis and Jack Snyder (New York: Oxford University Press, 1991), pp. 20--50; Betty Glad and Charles Taber, "The Domino Theory," in War: The Psychological Dimen­ sion, ed. Betty Glad (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1988); and Ross Gregory, "The Domino Theory," in Encyclopedia of American Foreign Policy, ed. Alexander DeConde (New York: Scribner'S, 1978), 1: 275-80. 42 It is possible that modern chemical and biological weapons have, or soon will have, nearly equivalent capability. For comparison of the destructive effects of nuclear, chemical, and biological warheads against civilian targets, see Steve Fetter, "Ballistic Missiles and Weapons of Mass Destruction," International Security 16 (Summer 1991): 5-42.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 36 --- Bombing to Win Meaningful defense is not possible, because nuclear weapons are so de­ structive that penetration of even a small proportion of weapons can devas­ tate a great power's societyY The adjustment to gradually accumulating damage which is possible under conventional attack cannot be made either, for the destruction can be inflicted all at once. Further