rikes. That these were usually located in city centers, however, and the large fraction of incendiaries in the bombloads shows that the principal aim was to wreak havoc directly on civilians.42 40 "The destruction of a city by fire can only [bel obtained by creating a large-scale confla­ gration in the vulnerable built-up area of the city, which generally lies about its centre. In this form of attack, the basic requirement is to drop a sufficient number of potential fire-raisers in the form of incendiary bombs to saturate the fire guard and fire brigade service. In addition, high explosive bombs must be used to harass and lower the efficiency of the fire fighters, to break water mains and to deny access to the fires by blocking structures, etc." Department of Bombing Operations, Incendiary Attacks on German Cities (London: British Air Ministry, Janu­ ary 1943), pp. 66-67, USAF HRAK512.547. 41 USSBS, Summary Report (European War), p. 10; Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offen­ sive, 2: 138-67; and Martin Caidin, The Night Hamburg Died (London: New English Library, 1966). 42 Plans for Operation Shatter, a scheme to "demonstrate to the German people through their own eyes their vulnerability to direct attack" by bombing a hundred German towns on a single day, which was developed in 1944 but never executed, make clear the intent behind these tar­ get choices: "To free such an operation as this from the stigma of being merely retaliatory terror bombing exact targets would have to be bombed in each of the cities to be attacked. They would be public utilities, transportation facilities, minor industries, or governmental buildings. The following program implies the disruption of administrative processes as the immediate ob­ jectives. It equally well could be fitted, for morale effect, to any other type of targets." But terror bombing was very definitely the purpose: "If the SHArrER criteria are followed, it is found that the cities selected, which have been previously f