us, over time, increasing poverty, disease, and hunger in the general population. Punishment was the first coercive strategy to be put into practice when airpower was developed. The earliest significant use of what can be called "strategic" airpower was the German air offensive of 1917, in which both Gotha bombers and Zeppelins struck British population centers. The seeds of this coercive strategy were planted in late 1914 and early 1915 once it be­ came evident that a quick end to the war was unlikely to be won on the bat­ tlefield. In late 1914 German naval memoranda recommended air attacks against British civilians: "In general air attacks with aeroplanes and airships from the Belgian and French coasts, particularly with airships, promise con­ siderable material and moral results .... We dare not leave untried any means of forcing England to her knees, and successful air attacks on Lon­ don, considering the well-known nervousness of the public, will be a valu­ able measure." Admiral Alfred von Tirpitz himself supported these raids on the basis of their punitive effects on British civilian morale. "All available ships should be concentrated on London," he wrote, adding, "The measure of the success will lie not only in the injury which will be caused to the enemy, but also in the significant effect it will have in diminishing the enemy's determination to prosecute the war, which will be greater than if the bombs are scattered singly."3 All together, some nine thousand German bombs totalling 280 tons were delivered in fifty-one Zeppelin and fifty-two Gotha raids against Britain. These raids killed 1A1) and wounded )A08.4 Although German air raids failed to compel Britain to withdraw support for the war, the British responded with their own countercity offensive in 1918 and planned for a much larger strategic air campaign in 1919. During the interwar period, intense debates occurred in industrialized countries about the role of the bomber in a future war. Although al