o protect the lives of government and military leaders. To circumvent the security surrounding leaders requires extremely detailed intelligence about their movement patterns, which can change without warning. 51 It took American troops days to find General Manuel Noriega after the Panama in­ vasion, and they were looking for him on the ground. In fact, there has been only one successful wartime assassination by military forces of an important enemy military or political leader Gapanese Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto in World War II), and it had no effect on the outcome of war. 52 Moreover, suc­ cess resulted more from opportunity than from planning. On 13 April 1943 Yamamato planned a series of morale-building visits to frontline bases. On 18 April United States intelligel1ce intercepted a radio message indicating his flight schedule and an air att,rck destroyed his aircraft. 53 Of all possible in­ struments, air power is among the least effective at such work because there is likely to be a significant time delay between locating a leader and sending an aircraft to attack him, a delay that is all the more critical in today's era of mobile command posts. Thus, using air power to strike at leaders probably requires reflex targeting, which assumes that the first attack will be unsuc­ cessful but will drive the leader to his favorite hideout, which is subjected to a a follow-on attack. This strategy multiplies the uncertainty.54 Second,truly idiosyncratic wars are rare in modern times. It is common for states to mobilize public support for war by demonizing their oppo­ nents, and personalizing conflicts (Churchill vs. Hitler, Reagan vs. Qaddafi, Bush vs. Saddam) plays an important role in these efforts. Outsiders fre­ quently exaggerate the degree to which enemy leaders' policies express their personal preferences rather than those of the larger society. This ten­ dency is exacerbated by intelligence provided by internal dissidents who have an interest in minimizing the degr