ty and thus its ability to field military forces, rather than to destroy those forces in battle.3D From a coercer's point of view, the most important difference between these two strategies is that mechanized war is highly dependent on logis­ tics and communications networks, and guerrilla war is not. Mechanized war strategies depend on tremendous amounts of ammunition, fuel, and other supplies, which flow from rear areas to forward combat units. Supply consumption is especially high in intense battles, and the strategy breaks down quickly when the flow of needed supplies is interrupted; logistical demands are inelastic. Both battlefield operations and logistics are coordi­ nated by centralized headquarters in the rear; if communication is dis­ rupted, frontline forces become sluggish and vulnerable to defeat in 29 B. H. Liddell Hart, History of the Second World War (New York: Putnam's, 1970), pp. 159-70,37C>-96. 30 Andrew T. Krepinevich, The Army and Vietnam (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1986), pp. 3-10. Representative of the extensive literature on guerrilla warfare are David Galula, Counterinsurgency Warfare (New York: Praeger, 1964); Robert G. K. Thompson, No Exit from Vietnam (London: Chatto and Windus, 1969); and Douglas S. Blaufarb, The Coun­ terinsurgency Era (New York: Free Press, 1977). 31 James F. Dunnigan, How to Make War: A Comprehensive Guide to Modern Warfare (New York: Morrow, 1982), pp. 308-22; Martin Van Creveld, Supplying War: Logistics from Wallen­ stein to Patton (New York: Cambridge University Press, 1977).  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 31 --- Explaining Military Coercion detail.3! Lightly armed guerrillas, however, have minimal logistics and communication requirements. Small amounts of weapons, ammunition, and fuel are needed, but the bulk of the necessary material support, such as food, is derived from the population under their control. Additionally, guerrillas require much less coordination and central control than con