aders' willingness to surrender must include whether they were willing to act independently of Hitler, either by support­ ing efforts to overthrow his rule or by disregarding his orders in the field. Further, since at certain times certain groups, especially the military leader­ ship, were divided, measures of these groups' potential impact on German policy must monitor changes in the number of each group willing to act. Much of the evidence for German views is problematic because it comes from statements made by the principals to American interrogators or from memoirs published after the war. In fact, unlike the Japanese case, there are very few contemporaneous primary sources in which leaders' views are documented. The problem is that evidence may be biased toward present­ ing officials as favoring surrender earlier or more strongly than they in fact did. Given the anticipation of war crimes trials, senior officials had power­ ful incentives to maximize the extent to which they had personally favored surrender and the degree to which they had opposed Hitler's policies. Also, because many of the interviews were conducted by the U.S. Strategic Bomb­ ing Survey, which was concerned to demonstrate the effectiveness of strate­ gic bombing, the interviewees had an incentive to agree that air power had played a key role in affecting their views. Ideally, one would control for slanted self-reporting by comparing several reports of each individual's views and by comparing statements to different audiences, and where possible I have done SO.111 To the extent that unde- 111 For instance, after the war, Speer told different Allied interviewers that practically every component of the bombing-raids against ball-bearing plants, morale, electric power-had been the crucial factor. Compare the quotes by Speer in Davis, Spaatz and the Air War, p. 398; John Terraine, A Time for Courage: The Royal Air Force in the European War, 1939-1945 (New York: Macmillan, 1985), p. 548; and Hansel