nce a great deal of civilian punishment to achieve goals articulated by the government. The resolve of democratic states can be further increased, moreover, when gov­ ernmental efforts to sell (or oversell) foreign policy commitments lead to "blowback." Inflated images of the importance of foreign policy interests can trap governments into maintaining commitments long after they would have preferred to abandon them. Authoritarian states, to the extent they rely on public enthusiasm for their policies, are also susceptible to these pres­ sures.12 Third, coercion often occurs in wartime, when the willingness of states to tolerate costs usually increases. As the economic and social suffering caused by war increases, states become less willing to abandon these sunk costs by making concessions. The experience of war and government propaganda can demonize the enemy and lead to an uncompromising "us or them" atti­ tude in which anything less than victory comes to be seen as disaster. Doves may be constrained from participating in political debate; willingness even to consider negotiation can come to be seen as treasonous. The need to mo­ bilize vast resources and to depend on large military organizations creates enormous institutional momentum that cannot easily be turned off.13 As a result, the longer a society is at war, the greater are the costs it will bear and the less inclined it is to accept settlements, even ones that would have been acceptable in peacetime. The fourth reason punishment rarely coerces is that conventional muni­ tions can inflict only limited damage on civilians even when used deliber- 10 Michael Howard, War in European History (New York: Oxford University Press, 1976), 110001I. 11 Stephen Van Evera, "Causes of War" (Diss., University of California, Berkeley, 1984), pp. 407-2I. 12 For discussion of the resolve of democracies, see George Kennan, American Diplomacy, 1900-1950 (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1951); and Van Evera, "Causes of War,