d probably chaos inside Germany. . . . it was already clear by that time that not even a coup d'etat would make any difference to the Allied demand for unconditional surrender." Gud­ erian wrote: "Not one leading political figure among the enemy had shown the slightest in­ clination to make any agreement with the conspirators. It is no exaggeration to say that if the assassination had succeeded Germany's condition would be not one jot better than it is today. Our enemies were not solely interested in destroying Hitler and Nazism." Manstein, Lost Vic­ tories, pp. 287-88; and Guderian, Panzer Leader, p. 345.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 136 --- Germany, 1942-1945 sider these in detail. The first wave of western historiography treated Ger­ many's war against the Soviet Union like any other military contest between opposing armies. Early works, supported by the apologetic postwar memoirs of former Wehrmacht generals, sharply separated the atrocities committed by Nazi henchmen from the purely military operations of the army.l33 In striking contrast to claims of innocence or indifference, German histo­ rians have now unearthed mounds of primary evidence showing that the Army participated willingly and fully in the Nazi program. Although the Einsatzgruppen of the SS and SD and the civilian-administered death camps spearheaded Nazi extermination policies in the east, the Wehrmacht not only supported these but itself carried out much of the genocide. The Wehrmacht was sympathetic to the Nazi program and heavily in­ volved in planning it. Military leaders participated not merely in the passive sense of knowing about the "political activities" and the work of the Ein­ satzgruppen, but also in the active sense of issuing orders to ensure they were executed efficiently.134 The military leadership in general accepted the National Socialist propaganda regarding the Soviet people and believed that the Jews were largely responsible for communism. Although few older officers