Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS), then the highest educational estab­ lishment for American airmen, who later wrote AWPD-1, the first u.s. air strategy plan in World War II. The key assumption embedded in the industrial web theory was that fighting modern wars would stretch an industrial state's economy so taut that small amounts of destruction, carefully concentrated on certain critical nodes, would cause the entire economic system to fold in on itself. The in­ dustrial web tied in several key producers, including basic industry and its sources of raw materials, plant machinery, power supplies, and the work force. The thread that tied workers to the web was called the industrial fab- 13 Malcolm Cooper, The Birth of Independent Air Power: British Air Policy in the First World War (London: Allen & Unwin, 1986), p. 26. For an interesting argument that before World War I many British elites manipulated civilian fears of air attack to speed the growth of British air power, see Alfred Gollin, The Impact of Air Power on the British People and Their Gov­ ernment, 1909-1914 (Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1989). 14 David Divine, The Broken Wing: A Study in the British Exercise of Air Power (London: Hutchinson, 1966), p. 162. 15 Barry R. Posen, The Sources of Military Doctrine (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1984), PP·15g-63·  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 63 --- Coercive Air Power ric: sources of food, clothing and utilities. 16 Since industrial economies were thought to be fragile, it was believed that a small number of bombers could destroy the entire economic base of an enemy, wreaking havoc on both civil­ ian welfare and an opponent's military power. When the people witnessed the paralysis of the economy, the general will to fight would be shattered and the state would surrender. Like the British and German strategies of economic blockade in World War I, but far more efficiently, the enemy pop­ ulation would be attacked indirectly, as Michael Sherry puts