e test of the denial theory recognizes forty distinct cases. For data underlying cod­ ings, see Appendix. Air power alone may not account for the outcome of all the cases, for in many instances, other instruments were also used. • Cases in which the denial theory failed to predict the outcome. t Cases involving nuclear coercion.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 53 --- Explaining Military Coercion Table 3. Civilian vs. military vulnerability (successes/ cases) Military vulnerability Very high/high Medium/low Success rate Civilian vulnerability Very high/high 6/8 2/8 5°% Mediumllow 8/9 0/15 33% Success rate 82% 9% is far more important than achieving high or very high civilian vulnerabil­ ity. Success rates vary only slightly across civilian vulnerability (50 percent to 33 percent), whereas they vary dramatically across military vulnerability (82 percent to 9 percent). Further, the four nuclear cases account for half of the successes with very high civilian vulnerability, including both of the ones without high military vulnerability. If these cases are excluded, success rates are completely unre­ lated to civilian vulnerability-33 percent in each row-confirming the proposition that conventional coercion is a function of military vulnerability and nuclear disputes are determined by civilian vulnerability. The strong results of this test indicate that even the parsimonious version of the denial theory accounts for nearly all the variance in the pattern of suc­ cess and failure in the universe of coercive air campaigns. We may derive confidence that future cases are likely to follow a similar pattern, but only if I can show that the results are not spurious (accounted for by as yet uniden­ tified factors) and that the causal dynamics expected by the theory actually appear in individual cases. For these purposes, detailed case studies are re­ quired. In the next six chapters I intensively investigate five disputes involving strategic bombing campaigns. Chapter 3 exp