hich denial success did not produce coercive success, and I investigate it in order to discover whether the rea­ sons for this failure require revision of the theory. All the case studies are structured in a similar way in order to show the pattern of decision making both within and across cases. To illuminate the causal dynamics within cases, I analyze cause and effect by dividing each case into time-slice sequences. Since the richness of the evidence on co­ ercer's actions and target state's reactions varies case by case and within cases, I discriminate time periods more finely in some cases than others. For example, the evidence on Japanese decision making is so rich that I can di­ vide Japanese decisions in the last two years of the war into seven distinct periods, but the less rich evidence on North Vietnamese decision making limits the divisions to but three periods over eight years. To illuminate the causal patterns across cases, I organize each around four main questions: First, what were the goals of the air offensive? Was it pur­ sued for coercive purposes alone, or were other goals also important? Sec­ ond, what coercive strategies were considered and adopted? Were the strategies pursued in their most ambitious form, or were they truncated to conform to political and organizational constraints? Third, how was the campaign conducted? How fully were the requirements of each proposed strategy achieved in practice? Finally, how did the target's decision making change over time and how did it correlate with the stages of the coercer's bombing campaign?  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 55 --- Coercive Air Power The most important instrument of modem military coercion, and the most useful for investigating the causes of coercive success and failure, is air power. This instrument has been used to execute concrete coercive strate­ gies that correspond to the conceptual categories of punishment, risk, and denial. A fourth strategy which pursues both punishment