t occupation, which they believed would be exceedingly brutal, partly in retaliation for German crimes in the east. Because of their own direct and indirect participation, they knew they could not escape retribution. Despite heavy costs, they con­ tinued to fight in order to buy time to permit soldiers and civilians to flee the advancing Red Army. Germany might have surrendered in July 1944, when Allied offensives shattered German lines in both France and Russia, making defeat certain if Germany could not deter its enemies by fear of high casualties. Germany might have surrendered in January 1945 when the failure of its Ardennes of­ fensive and the successful Russian offensive in Poland made it impossible to continue attrition warfare for long. Or it might have surrendered in March 1945 when Hitler's ability to control his subordinates broke down and the final Allied offensives began. At each of these points, however, fear of Soviet occupation outweighed concern for the costs of continuing the war. It was that fear that prevented many officers from joining the coup in July 1944. Both Guderian and Manstein, for example, withheld support largely because they doubted the coup would soften Allied treatment of Germany after the war.!32 In January 1945 continued resistance in the west mattered because it provided resources for Germany to hold off the Soviets in the east. In March the main concern was buying time for refugees to escape from the areas to be occupied by the USSR into areas under the control of the Western Allies. Since my argument hinges on Wehrmacht behavior in the east and German military leaders' expectations of Russian occupation, it is important to con- 131 Ibid., p. 620. 132 Manstein believed that "it would have led to an immediate collapse of the front and probably chaos inside Germany. . . . it was already clear by that time that not even a coup d'etat would make any difference to the Allied demand for unconditional surrender." Gud­ erian wrote: "Not