cance, such as Norway in World War II. By implication, since the coercer cannot lower the value of the disputed territory to the target state, coercion must require either raising costs or reducing the probability that the territorial benefits can be attained even if the target continues to resist. 5 Stephen M. Walt, Origins of Alliances (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1987). On the rise of nationalism and its effect on conceptions of national interest, see Ernest Gellner, Nations and Nationalism (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1983); and John Breuilly, Nationalism and the State (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1982). [16]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 17 --- Explaining Military Coercion The coercer can raise the costs of continued resistance, principally by ex足 ploiting civilian vulnerabilities. States are always concerned about protect足 ing the welfare of their civilian populations. When a state participates in an international dispute, however, it does so because its territorial ambitions outweigh the expected costs and risks to its citizens. By threatening to harm civilians, the coercer seeks to raise the costs of continued resistance above the target state's value for the territory at stake. If the threat is sufficiently great, the target state will abandon the territory to preserve its greater inter足 est in protecting its populace. The more important the territorial interests at stake, the higher the benefits, and therefore the higher must the coercer raise costs to compel concessions. If the concessions demanded include highly valued territory or even the target state's homeland (that is, surrender), the level of costs that must be inflicted to induce concessions is usually ex足 tremely high. By implication, moreover, economic inducements (bribery) are poor complements to military coercion over significant interests. Whether employed simultaneously or promised to sweeten deals, they are not likely to influence the victim's decision signific