would have sacrificed the opportunity to transfer millions of civilians out of the expected zone of Soviet occupation and into the western zones. "Painful though it was to be compelled by these pressing considerations to continue the war in the winter of 1944-45, to sac足 rifice more soldiers and sailors on all fronts and all the world over and to en足 dure yet more casualties among civilians in air-raids, there was no option, for the losses were smaller than had we prematurely given up our eastern territories."147 JodI gave a similar explanation for not surrendering after the Ardennes offensive: Even if we had any doubt as to what faced us, it was completely removed by the fact that we captured the English "Eclipse." ... It was exact instructions about what the occupying power was to do in Germany after the capitulation. Now, unconditional surrender meant that the troops would cease to fight where they stood on all the fronts, and be captured by the enemy facing them . . . . Millions of prisoners would suddenly have to camp in the middle of win足 ter in the open. Death would have taken an enormous toll. Above all, the men still on the Eastern front, numbering about three and a half million, would have fallen into the hands of the enemy in the East. It was our task to save as many people as possible [by evacuating them to] the Western area.148 144 Quoted in Zayas, Nemesis at Potsdam, p. 62. For many accounts of Russian brutalities in Romania, Hungary; and Czechoslovakia, see Theodor Schieder, ed., Documents on the Expul足 sion of the Germans from East-Central Europe, 4 vols. (Bonn: Federal Ministry for Expellees, Refugees, and War Victims, 1960). 145 Botting, Ruins of the Reich, p. 70. 146 Zayas, Nemesis At Potsdam, p. xxv, 203-4- 147 Doenitz, Memoirs, p. 431. 148 The Trial of Major German War Criminals (London: HMSO, 1948), pt. 15, p. 371.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 140 --- Germany, 1942-1945 Fear of the Soviet occupation explains why the army did not want t