the Luftwaffe in air-to­ air combat with escort fighters, mainly during the first half of 1944. Even if there had been no strategic bombing effort, however, the Luftwaffe would still have been destroyed by Allied tactical air power as the advance of ground forces extended its range. Even in 1943 and early 1944 Allied fight­ ers had already achieved control of the air as far as they could reach into Belgium, France, and Italy, and the same pattern was repeated wherever Al­ lied fighters flew.81 In summary, the Douhet, strategic interdiction, and operational interdic­ tion strategies all satisfied their basic requirements, but at different times. B1 For a rich discussion of the battle for air superiority over Western Europe, see Williamson Murray, Luftwaffe (Baltimore: Nautical & Aviation Publishing Company of Amer­ ica, 1985), pp. 143-97.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 116 --- Germany, 1942-1945 The Douhet strategy was implemented quite effectively, destroying large parts of Germany's largest cities by the end of the war. The goal of the strategic interdiction strategy, to destroy the German economy, was achieved by March 1945, although air attack was a less important cause than land power. Operational interdiction was the most effective air strategy be­ cause it impeded the flow of supplies that could have significantly im­ proved the fighting power of the German armies. EXPLAINING GERMAN BEHAVIOR Allied coercion failed, not because the Allies' coercive strategies were not well implemented but because Nazi Germany was virtually immune to con­ ventional coercion. The efforts to marupulate civilian vulnerability failed, though the Allies inflicted substantial costs, because Germany, even more than most modern nation-states involved in war, was willing to pay a high price to preserve its territorial control. The effort to manipulate military vul­ nerability failed not because the Allies could not convince German leaders of their inability to defend the homeland,