e patterns predicted by the theory actually occur over a broad class of cases. It also increases the robustness of my findings; even if ambiguity of evidence leaves my interpretation of certain cases open to debate, my conclusions are likely to be valid as long as most of the analysis is sound. Detailed exami­ nation of five cases enhances confidence that the correlations found in the larger universe are not spurious, that is, that my theory accurately identifies the causal dynamics that determine outcomes. Testing the denial theory requires three steps. First, relevant historical evi­ dence must be identified. Second, the theory must be put into operation to provide falsifiable predictions that can be easily observed in historical cases. Third, the predictions of the theory must be compared to the evidence. This study investigates the universe of coercive attempts using strategic air power, thirty-three in all, most of which occurred in war (see Table 1). Cases were identified according to three criteria. First, cases are restricted to those in which the target was asked to give up important interests. Typical examples are efforts to compel reduction of political aims, agreement to a cease-fire, withdrawal of forces, or even surrender, by states that retain the capacity for continued military operations. Cases in which the demands on the target involved minor or insignificant loss, such as extortion of tribute, are excluded. If the target of coercion incurs little or no cost in complying with the coercer's demands, it might comply even if subjected to little or no pressure. Such cases, therefore, have little value for explaining cases where compliance is expensive for the target. Thus, I excluded a number of cases of British air policing in the Middle East in the 1920S and 1930S because they involved minor issues such as payment of taxes or fines and surrender of criminals for trial. A typical example was the bombing of Quteibi tribesmen in Aden in 1934 in order to