was the expectation that economic devastation would also undermine civilian morale.13 Bombing Cities British air strategy consistently stressed direct attacks on German popu足 lation centers as the key to bringing Germany to terms. Unlike the Ameri足 cans, who attacked population centers only at the end of the war, the British had detailed plans from the beginning and diverged from them only when Western land forces required immediate support. The British had plans to attack German civilian morale even before France was attacked, and they bombed railway centers beginning in July 1941, according to the British Bombing Survey, as a means of "destroying the morale of the civilian population as a whole and of the industrial work- 11 AWPD-1, pp. 1-3. 12 AWPD-1, p. 2; Hansell, Air Plan that Defeated Hitler, pp. 74-76. In November 1943 Carl Spaatz told President Roosevelt's close adviser Harry Hopkins that given three months of clear weather, he could defeat Germany; rendering the invasion unnecessary. Harry C. Butcher, My Three Years with Eisenhower: The Personal Diary of Harry C. Butcher, USN Naval Aide to General Eisenhower, 1942-1945 (New York: Simon and Schuster, 1946), p. 447. 13 As Major Muir Fairchild, director of air tactics and strategy, remarked, "Obviously we cannot and do not intend to actually kill or injure all the people. Therefore our intention in deciding upon this method of attack must be to so reduce the morale of the enemy civilian population through fear-fear of death or injury for themselves and their loved ones-that they would prefer our terms of peace to continuing the struggle, and would force their gov足 ernment to capitulate." Quoted in Ronald Schaffer, Wings of Judgment: American Bombing in World War II (New York: Oxford University Press, 1985), p. 31. Similarly; Major General Don足 ald Wilson, another ACTS lecturer, also stressed that the anticipated economic disintegration would disrupt the daily routine of the civil population and in so doing re