ith correspondingly less coercive effect. In fact, risk strategies are rarely used except when coercers are subject to political constraints that prevent them from waging full-blown punishment campaigns. Domestic political constituencies may be unwilling to countenance the large-scale suf­ fering that would result from prosecuting a punishment campaign, for in­ stance, or the coercer's government may fear that more intensive attacks would provoke third-party intervention on behalf of the target state. The U.S. bombing of Libya in 1986 was limited to a single raid because neither the American public nor U.S. allies in Europe would have supported exten-  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 29 --- Explaining Military Coercion sive operations. 27 This case also demonstrates that credibility may be lost if the assailant becomes less determined to continue inflicting costs as the campaign progresses. When Conventional Denial Works The key to the success of denial strategies rests in the interaction of the two sides' military strategies. Simply destroying targets of military value is not sufficient, for such attacks may not necessarily undermine the oppo­ nent's prospects of controlling the territory at issue. Thus, the German sub­ marine blockade of Britain in World War I did reduce British imports of raw materials with some effect on aggregate industrial production but not suffi­ ciently to prevent Britain from continuing to execute its strategy for liberat­ ing northern France and Belgium. Of course, complete destruction of all the victim's military capabilities will undermine any strategy, but it is achieved only by decisive military victory-with all its costs-and thus counts as a coercive failure, not a success. Although the target usually cannot change its basic strategy, because this is fixed by its capabilities or form of political organization, it often has great ability to minimize the effects of the coercer's attacks. The target state may have a considerable cu