ry position in 1943 and 1944, none had con­ crete plans for surrender at this point. All spoke and behaved like ardent supporters of continuing the war, and most important, none backed the July 1944 plot to overthrow Hitler. Starting in April 1944, Goebbels shifted from no surrender to limited sur­ render to the Soviet Union. He submitted a memorandum to Hitler declar­ ing, "Never has the Reich won a two-front war"; therefore, he proposed, Germany should agree to return to the position of 1939-1940 under the Nazi-Soviet Pact and should surrender to the Soviet Union all of Eastern Eu­ rope from northern Norway to Greece, inclusive. Goebbels was willing to surrender to the Soviets, but not to the West right up until the end.1l7 Following the disasters of January 1945 on the battlefield and the collapse of the German war economy in March, several leaders went directly to Hitler to advocate surrender. In February Ribbentrop advocated limited sur­ render; in March Speer appears to have been willing to surrender immedi­ ately to the West. A principal factor in Speer's change of attitude was a study he completed in March 1945 which showed: It is impossible to maintain Germany's economic life for any length of time with the amount of hard-coal still available and the raw steel production ca­ pacity .... It is possible to delay this threatening collapse of the German econ­ omy for several months. . .. After the loss of Upper Silesia German armament will no longer be even remotely in a position to meet the requirements of the front and the demands for new lists of equipment. The material superiority of the enemy can therefore no longer be balanced by the bravery of our soldiers.u8 Finally, military vulnerability persuaded Himmler to shift to immediate sur­ render on 23 April: "In the situation that has arisen I consider my hands free. I admit that Germany is defeated. In order to save as great a part of 117 On Goebbels's surrender position, see Rudolf Semmler, Goebbels (Londo