e is easy. Under mutually assured destruction (MAD), any potential coercer must consider the possibility of nuclear retaliation and will be unlikely even to at­ tempt coercion unless enormously important interests are at stake. As a re­ sult, nuclear coercion attempts are very rare, and when they do occur, the outcome will likely be determined by the balance of interests between the two sides.48 Unless there is a large asymmetry in its favor, however, the co­ ercer is not likely to fear nuclear escalation any less than the target. Any con­ cessions are therefore likely to be on peripheral issues, inasmuch as a coercer that challenges major territorial interests is unlikely to enjoy the nec­ essary advantage. While the standard wisdom is right for MAD, it misses important features of cases in which the coercer has a large advantage in nuclear forces, al­ though the target has some retaliatory capability and cases in which the tar­ get cannot retaliate. Most authors have treated the first group of cases as equivalent to MAD and have ignored the second altogether. When nuclear capabilities are quite unequal, the outcome is determined primarily by rela­ tive civilian vulnerability, not the balance of interests; the less vulnerable state is likely to prevail. The prospect of one party suffering assured de­ struction while the other does not implies that one must fear elimination and the other, only very high costs. Assuming this situation is common knowledge, the asymmetry between damage and elimination creates tremendous coercive pressure on the opponent, because any increase in the risk of nuclear war will create a large divergence in the expected outcome for each side. Thus, once the coercer indicates a credible willingness to risk starting a nuclear war, the prospect of unequal damage exerts coercive leverage on the opponent to accept the coercer's demands. Although Britain in the Suez crisis and the Soviet Union in the Cuban missile crisis had some nuclear retaliato