q to Bosnia to North Korea, increasingly the first question in debates over Amer­ ican intervention is becoming, Can air power alone do the job?1 The answer is no. First, coercion is very hard. It hardly ever succeeds by raising costs and risks to civilians. When coercion does work, it is by deny­ ing the opponent the ability to achieve its goals on the battlefield. However, even denial does not always work. Sometimes states can succeed only by decisively defeating their opponents. Second, strategic bombing does not work. Strategic bombing for punishment and decapitation do not coerce, and strategic bombing is rarely the best way to achieve denial. The "preci­ sion-guided missile revolution" is not likely to enhance the coercive effects of strategic bombing. Nevertheless, despite its ineffectiveness, strategic bombing is likely to persist because of bureaucratic interests and political pressures for cheap solutions to difficult foreign policy problems. The solu­ tion, if there is one, is knowledge, for ignorance allows advocates of bad 1 The clearest call for the air force to conduct power projection by relying on strategic bombing is found in Donald B. Rice, The Air Force and U.S. National Security: Global Reach­ Global Power (Washington, D.C.: Department of the Air Force, June 1991). For a diverse debate on the role of air power in American grand strategy, see Richard H. Schultz Jr. and Robert L. Pfaltzgraff Jr., eds., The Future of Air Power in the Aftermath of the Gulf War (Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala.: Air University Press, 1992).  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 148 --- Beyond Strategic Bombing strategies to escape serious questioning. Historically, we have not studied military coercion in peacetime; we should. COERCION Is HARD The cases studied in this book show that the requirements for successful coercion are very high. Even when coercion succeeds, moreover, it rarely gains very much. Conventional attack on civilians was pursued as a major coercive str