take. History shows that strategic bombing strategies are the least effec­ tive ways to use air power for coercion. First, punishment does not work. Modern nation states have extremely high pain thresholds when important interests are at stake, which conven­ tional munitions cannot overcome. Low to moderate levels of punishment inspire more anger than fear; heavy bombardment produces apathy, not re­ bellion. Second, risk does not work. Risk strategies are merely a weaker form of punishment. Although they depend on credibility, their credibility is often low because they have usually been employed by governments that were domestically constrained from unleashing full-scale punishment. Nuclear coercion is the exception; the prospect of nuclear devastation is so horrible that even threats with low credibility can coerce. Third, decapitation does not work. Political decapitation is not feasible because individual leaders are hard to kill, governments are harder to overthrow, and even if the target government can be overthrown, the co­ ercer can rarely guarantee that its replacement will be more forthcoming. Military decapitation is ineffective because air power cannot isolate na­ tionalleaders from control over battlefield forces for long, and short dis­ ruptions do not matter unless other instruments are poised to exploit them immediately. Fourth, denial can work, but strategic bombing is not the best way to achieve it. No strategic bombing campaign has ever yielded decisive results, nor were any significant opportunities missed. Strategic bombing is much more expensive than theater air power, but ad­ vocates justify the added cost on the grounds that strategic bombing de-  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 150 --- Beyond Strategic Bombing stroys much higher-leverage targets.2 They are wrong. Modern war economies are not brittle. Although individual plants can be destroyed, the opponent can reduce the effects by dispersing production of important items and stockpili