, but the bulk of the necessary material support, such as food, is derived from the population under their control. Additionally, guerrillas require much less coordination and central control than conven­ tional forces. Since individual units operate autonomously, only rudimen­ tary communications networks are necessary and temporary disruptions rarely jeopardize operations. The implication is that the most effective denial strategy in any dispute depends on the strategy of the opponent. If it is mechanized warfare, dis­ rupting logistical flows and communication networks is likely to be effec­ tive. If it is guerrilla warfare, cutting logistics and communications will have little effect; instead, the coercer must separate the guerrillas from the popu­ lation that forms the basis of their support, such as by re-locating villages to more secure areas. For instance, American attempts to coerce North Viet­ nam from 1965 to 1968 by interdicting supply lines failed because the North was pursuing a guerrilla war strategy; in 1972 a similar air campaign did co­ erce Hanoi because the North had shifted to a conventional war strategy. Denial strategies offer more coercive leverage than punishment or risk, but they are subject to three limitations. First, coercers can obtain conces­ sions only over the specific territory that has been denied to the opponent. If the target state is persuaded it will lose one territory but not another, it will concede only the one that is lost. If the coercer demands more than it can persuade the target state it would lose in continued fighting, coercion will fail even though denial was partly achieved. By June 1945 the Japanese were willing to give up Korea, Formosa, and their positions in China, which they considered to be certainly lost, but were not willing to surrender the home islands, which they thought might still be held by inflicting such high costs on American forces that they would abandon a final invasion. Second, military pressure