ackmail, p. 4. Ellsberg notes: "My problem as a blackmailer is to convince you that I am 'too likely' to respond with my second strategy, Pun­ ish, for you to accept the risk that your own second strategy, Resist, would entail." "Theory and Practice of Blackmail," p. 347. Schelling writes: "The ideal compellent action would be one that, once initiated, causes minimal harm if compliance is forthcoming and great harm if compliance is not forthcoming." Arms and Influence, p. 89. 19 Robert Jervis, The Meaning of the Nuclear Revolution: Statecraft and the Prospect of Armaged­ don (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1989), p. 30. 20 Betts, Nuclear Blackmail, pp. 15, 219-20, des.:;ribes but does not endorse this logic.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 8 --- Bombing to Win as well as civilian, targets have been attacked for coercive purposes. During the bombing of Germany in World War II, the British focused on civilians while the Americans concentrated on military-related targets. Both strate­ gies aimed to avoid a protracted land campaign, so as to achieve a political goal without paying the full cost of direct assault. Both are therefore prop­ erly considered coercive efforts. To study only the British bombing as coer­ cion would be historically inaccurate and would miss an important part of the dynamics of the case. In the realm of theory, studying only countercivilian attacks risks ignor­ ing some of the most powerful mechanisms of successful coercion. Coercion sometimes succeeds even though civilians suffer only minor punishment, as in the American bombing of North Vietnam in 1972. Conversely, it some­ times fails despite very heavy punishment, as in Ethiopia in 1936, the Sino­ Japanese war from 1937 to 1945, and the Allied bombing of Germany in World War II. Accordingly, a definition of coercion limited to punishment of civilians makes it impossible to explain many coercive outcomes.21 Third, the productive study of coercion must recognize that the vulnera­ bilit