nder of homeland territory is especially unlikely. Nationalist sentiments demand resistance to foreign rule even when physical security cannot be guaranteed. 5. Surrender terms that incorporate heavy additional punishment will not be ac­ cepted. There is no incentive to concede when the costs of surrender outweigh those of continued resistance. Societies that expect to become victims of geno­ cide will not surrender. 6. Coercive success almost always takes longer than the logic of either punishment or denial alone would suggest. Targets of coercion are usually slow to recognize the magnitudes of both increased civilian suffering and declining military prospects. Also, the domestic political costs of concessions encourage delay until the hopelessness of the situation becomes inescapably obvious. Even small hopes of success can cause coercion to fail. Nuclear Coercion In contrast to conventional coercion, the accepted wisdom on nuclear co­ ercion is mostly right. It succeeds by manipulating civilian vulnerability, ac­ cording to four propositions: 1. Nuclear coercion requires superiority. If the target state has an assured de­ struction capability, any coercer is likely to be deterred. 2. Denial strategies are not useful in nuclear disputes. The horrific levels of societal destruction in nuclear war are likely to so dominate decision making as to make the prospects for success or failure of military campaigns largely irrelevant. 3. Risk strategies can be successful in nuclear disputes. Unlike conventional threats, nuclear threats raise the prospect of so much harm that they can co­ erce without being fully implemented. 4. Nuclear punishment should be effective but rare. No target could resist. How­ ever, nuclear bombardment would not only reduce the value of the disputed ter­ ritory, but would also earn the coercer a reputation for unparalleled barbarism.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 21 --- Explaining Military Coercion These propositions are based on observat