of the West­ ern Front and to suppress V-weapons sites.38 The change in British air strategy resulted from three factors. First, after German air raids on London and other English cities in 1940, the British government felt increasing pressure to retaliate against German cities.39 The Cabinet, in fact, had already come to favor area bombing over precision in­ dustrial attacks before sustained bombing of Germany had even begun. Sec­ ond, the failure of precision operations to produce significant results, even though the Cabinet had given Bomber Command first call on British war production in 1941, was politically unacceptable. Third, since a shift to night operations was unavoidable, the British needed targets which were large enough in area to make even a widely spread bomb pattern effective. Only urban areas fit this bill. On 22 February 1942, the precision-oriented chief of Bomber Command, Sir Richard Pierse was replaced by Air Marshal Arthur Harris, who was to execute the new Douhet strategy that had been ordered by the "Towns Di­ rective" of 14 February. Tactics for the raids were optimized to bum down 36 BBSU, Strategic Air War, pp. 1~. 37 A modest move in this direction can be detected after July 1941, when night attacks against marshalling yards in the center of cities began as a compromise between interdiction and morale bombing, "since it was recognized that on only some six moonlight nights a month could specific objectives be bombed, and that on the remaining twenty-four or five conditions were likely to be so bad that attacks, owing to their necessarily 'indiscriminate' character, could be regarded as directed only against morale." BBSU, Strategic Air War, p. 6. 38 As in the case of Japan, the transition in strategies can be dated by tracing changes in tar­ geting, mission profiles, and munitions. For a detailed account of the development of Amer­ ican incendiary tactics, see John W. Mountcastle, "Trial by Fire: U.s. Incendiary Weapons, 191&-1945" (Diss.