l Deterrence (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1983), pp. 33-34· 47 On the connection between the economic foundations of military power and the nature of war, see Paul M. Kennedy, "The First World War and the International Power System," In­ ternational Security 9 (Summer 1984): 37-40.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 76 --- Bom6ing to Win Strategic interdiction can undermine attrition strategies, either by attack­ ing weapons plants or by smashing the industrial base as a whole, which in turn reduces military production. Of the two, attacking weapons plants is the less effective. Given the substitution capacities of modern industrial economies, "war" production is highly fungible over a period of months. Production can be maintained in the short term by running down stockpiles and in the medium term by conservation and substitution of alternative ma­ terials or processes. In addition to economic adjustment, states can often make doctrinal adjustments. Even when production of an important weapon system is seriously undermined, tactical and operational adjust­ ments may allow other weapon systems to substitute for it. In 1944-1945 the Germans' compensated for their shortage of tanks by introducing more ef­ fective infantry antitank weapons, notably the Panzerfaust and panzer­ schreck. As a result, efforts to remove the "critical" component in war production generally fail. The Allies won air superiority over Germany in World War II not because bombing aircraft engine plants caused the num­ bers of German aircraft to decline but because air battles killed the Luft­ waffe's most highly trained pilots. Iraq's ability to disperse its nuclear weapons plants indicates that the industrial bases of even Third World countries are elastic. In addition to nuclear facilities, the Iraqis also appear to have dispersed much of the equipment for their national telecommunica­ tions network and other key industrial systems prior to the start of the air war to enable the rapid r