litary operations, the EOU estimated that the loss of more than 50 percent of Axis output would quickly reduce German tactical and strategic mobility as well as frontline delivery of supplies.64 Specifically, the destruction of fifty-four oil installations was expected to force Germany to cut present military consumption by 25 percent, even if it retained posses­ sion of the Romanian oil fields. An immediate effect on the western front could not be guaranteed, because the Allies could not estimate how the con­ sumption reductions would be allocated between air and land forces and between the various fronts. Nevertheless, the EOU planners were confident that there would be a major impact within six months. 65 On 23 March 1944 Eisenhower decided in favor of transportation because it appeared to offer the greatest military effect on the Western front in the shortest time. Oil was assigned second priority. Even so, between 1 May 1944· and 31 March 1945, the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces and RAF Bomber Command conducted 555 separate attacks on 133 oil industry tar- 62 Tedder, With Prejudice, pp. 502-4. 509, 529-40; Zuckerman, From Apes to Warlords, pp. 222, 232-33, 28g--g0; and Mierzejewski, Collapse of the German War Economy, pp. 81-82. The French transportation system was clearly an operational target, but transportation in Ger­ many, as well as oil, was more ambiguous, since these targets could also be hit in support of a strategic interdiction or even an industrial web strategy. I have characterized them as op­ erational interdiction targets, first, because that was the rationale on which Allied air plan­ ners selected them; second, because the German civilian economy, including electric power generation, heating, and other civilian fuel requirements were met pnmarily by coal; and third, because substantial attacks on transportation targets in Germany proper did not begin until September 1944, by which time they were needed for the direct logistic support of frontl