cessions and the probability of attaining these benefits by continued re­ sistance are exceeded by the costs of resistance and the probability of suf­ fering these costs, the target concedes. The logic of coercion can be described by a simple equation: R = Bp(B)-Cp(C), where: R = value of resistance B = potential benefits of resistance p(B) = probability of attaining benefits by continued resistance C = potential costs of resistance p(C) = probability of suffering costs. Concessions occur when R < o. Coercive success must be a function of altering one or more of these factors by increasing the costs of continued resistance, raising the certainty that these costs will be suffered, lowering the benefits, or reducing the probability of success. Not all these components, however, are susceptible to manipulation. First, benefits are not usually manipulatable by the coercer. While other issues may be involved, the principal issue in serious international disputes is usually control over territory. Territorial interests tend to be fixed within the time span of a dispute, because they emanate from pressures that change slowly, such as power-balancing considerations, or hardly at all, such as nationalism. Nationalist attachments to particular territories result from elements of the target state's linguistic, cultural, and political history, which the coercer is powerless to change. Interests based on security con­ cerns derive from the balance of power and threat in the international sys­ tem.s Since the coercer, by definition, poses a severe threat to the target state, it is in no position to persuade the target that territorial interests are unim­ portant. War itself, moreover, can occasionally increase the value of certain territory, especially territory with military significance, such as Norway in World War II. By implication, since the coercer cannot lower the value of the disputed territory to the target state, coercion must require either raising costs or reducing th