even when it is not in the interest of the society as a whole. The cushion of legiti­ macy provided by nationalism permits the government to maintain the al­ legiance of the population, especially for mobilization against .an external threat. Even when governments do not have incentives to oppose surrender, mil­ itary elites often do. Aside from the reasons affecting government regimes, the military has reason to fear that its very institution will be dismantled be­ cause of externally imposed disarmament or domestic demilitarization ini­ tiatives. Although militaries lack the legitimacy advantages of civilian governments, they possess powerful capabilities to prevent concessions they oppose. The vast resources that must be mobilized to meet serious threats force governments to depend heavily on the military as an organi­ zation and give it great political influence.34 An additional threat to the gov­ ernment is that the military usually also has a monopoly of force, enabling it to disobey or even remove the government if necessary. Aside from the disincentives to make concessions, states also often poorly evaluate both civilian costs and military failures.35 Governments in serious disputes tend to become less tolerant of criticism of their policies, for exam­ ple. Since decisions have more momentous consequences, criticism is per- 32 Ernest May, "Lessons" of the Past: The Use and Misuse of History in American Foreign Policy (New York: Oxford University Press, 1973), pp. 125-43. 33 Karl Dietrich Bracher, The German Dictatorship (New York: Praeger, 1970). 34 Mearsheimer, "Theory and Practice"; Bernard Brodie, War and Politics (New York: Macmillan, 1973), chap. 1; and Gordon Craig, The Politics of the Prussian Army, 1640--1945 (New York: Oxford University Press, 1955). 35 The following discussion applies Stephen Van Evera's pathbreaking analysis of "non­ evaluation of strategy" by modem nation-states to the problem of understanding coercive pressures. See Van Evera, "