n effectiveness. Hence, once a shortage of oil actually occurred, it translated directly into lower fighting effectiveness, but it would not have been so important had not ground forces been pressing the battle. Finally, the German case serves as a warning to those who advocate near complete reliance on air power to win wars. The air planners who prepared 159 Mierzejewski, Col/apse of the German War Economy, p. 192. 160 USSBS, The Effects of Strategic Bombing on German Transportation (Washington, D.C.: GPO, January 1947), p. 14-  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 146 --- Germany, 1942-1945 AWPD-1 had spent years in a sincere attempt to devise an air strategy that would win even without large ground forces. Indeed, the original plans of the United States to build 240 divisions were stalled at 90 by the need to as足 sign over 1.3 million men to the Army Air Forces at their peak and countless thousands to building an air force that reached twenty-eight thousand planes at its peak.161 Nonetheless, air power played a secondary role to land power, and we must question the wisdom of any long-term defense policy relying exclusively on air power. 161 USSBS, Summary Report (European War), p. 5.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 147 --- [9] Beyond Strategic Bombing The most important reason to study the determinants of coercive success and failure is to draw lessons for future policy debates. Coercion, and strate足 gic bombing, will not go away. Air power is becoming increasingly impor足 tant to American grand strategy. It projects force more rapidly and with less risk of life than land power and more formidably than naval power. These are valuable attributes for unpredictable crises that occur in places where the American public is unwilling to shed much blood. Thus, from Iraq to Bosnia to North Korea, increasingly the first question in debates over Amer足 ican intervention is becoming, Can air power alone do the job?1 The answer is no. First, coercion is very hard. It har