he first attempt to artic­ ulate an integrated theory of the role of air power in land warfare occurred in interwar Germany. German thinking on air power held that bombers should support the army's ability to take and hold territory by attriting enemy frontline forces. Proponents declared that the chief purpose of air power was to contribute to a combined arms assault that would break through an enemy's front lines. Bombers would be used as "flying artillery" to strike both fixed and moving targets very close to the point of attack but out of range of army artillery. Most important, bombers would strike rein­ forcements in the rear areas and near the "shoulders" of breakthrough points, disrupting the ability of the enemy to counterconcentrate tactical re­ serves to defeat the initial penetrations of the front.34 The use of air power directly on the battlefield had its strongest support in Germany for three reasons. First, because the Versailles Treaty proscribed an independent German air force, the Reichswehr was forced to maintain and develop its reservoir of air power expertise clandestinely, under the tutelage of the army until 1935. Thus, airmen had no choice but to cooperate with the army and had no incentive to produce a doctrine underwriting an independent air force. Second, the Luftwaffe learned from its experience during the Spanish Civil War that counterpopulation bombing had much less effect on civilian morale than expected and that accurate bombing of in- 33 Slessor, Air Power and Armies (London: Oxford University Press, 1936), p. 3. 34 On the emergence of Luftwaffe doctrine, see James S. Corum, "The Reichswehr and the Concept of Mobile War in the Era of Hans von Seeckt" (Diss., Queen's University, Kingston, Ont., 1990); Williamson Murray, "The Luftwaffe Experience, 1939-1941," in Cast Studies in the Development of Close Air Support, ed. Benjamin Franklin Cooling (Washington, D.C.: Office of Air Force History, 1990), pp. 71-114; and Matthew Cooper, The G