orth Vietnam, both because important sectors of the American public would not support indiscriminate bombing and, even more impor­ tant, because officials feared that massive bombing throughout North Viet­ nam would bring China into the war.31 The aim was to coerce Hanoi by increasing the risks that existing limits would be crossed, leading to the loss of industrial production. This campaign failed both because the political constraints on the Johnson administration ruled out indiscriminate countercivilian attacks and because the threat of limited bombing of industrial targets did not pose the risk of sufficiently brutal civilian hardship to overwhelm Hanoi's territorial inter­ ests. North Vietnam viewed the South as part of its homeland and its com­ mitment to unify the country was based on the powerful motive of national cohesion. Threatening to destroy North Vietnam's tiny industrial base did not create sufficient risks to affect the government's political calculus. Air attack on civilian populations, whether it seeks to kill large numbers or destroy the civilian economy, is not likely to coerce states in serious interna­ tional disputes. Over more than seventy-five years, the record of air power is replete with efforts to alter the behavior of states by attacking or threatening to attack large numbers of civilians. The incontrovertible conclusion from these campaigns is that air attack does not cause citizens to turn against their government. Air power slaughtered British, German, and Japanese civilians in World War II; threatened Egyptian civilians in the 1970 "war of attrition" with Israel; and depopulated large parts of Afghanistan in the 1980s. In each case, the citizenry remained loyal to its leaders. In fact, in the more than thirty major strategic air campaigns that have thus far been waged, air power has never driven the masses into the streets to demand anything. Although bombing economic structures can weaken an opponent's mili­ tary capabilities in lo