re denial. They seek to weaken enemy battlefield forces by starving them of needed logistic support or by direct attrition so that their collapse becomes inevitable. Accordingly, air power is a more flexible coercive tool than land power, which is useful only for denial, or sea power, whose effects depend at least as much on the choices of the target as on those of the coercer. Air cam­ paigns can be, and often are, tailored to a specific coercive strategy through selective attack of targets identified with that strategy but not others. Still, the ability of coercive air power to discriminate between punishment and denial is not perfect, particularly when strategic bombing rather than the­ ater air attack is used. Punishment targets, such as residential areas, may be located close to denial targets, such as bridges, although proximity matters less as weapons accuracy improves. Nor is this problem as common as is sometimes believed. For example, in World War II, German, Japanese, and British cities all tended to have residential neighborhoods near the center with industrial plants around the outskirts. This is a common pattern be­ cause industry requires large stretches of low-priced land.71 Although the target government may compensate for damage by shifting resources from civilian consumption to military use, the potential for such adjustment is less than under naval blockade because strategic bombing can destroy spe­ cific war plants or military transportation links that are hard to replace at any price. Indeed, almost all losses in aircraft, vehicle, or explosives pro­ duction must reduce military resources because in wartime little of such production is allocated to civilian use. 71 Kenneth Hewitt, "Place Annihilation: Area Bombing and the Fate of Urban Places," An­ nals of the Association of American Geographers 73, no. 2 (1983): 257-84.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 47 --- Explaining Military Coercion In nuclear coercion, strategic nuclear forces fulfi