r. This instrument has been used to execute concrete coercive strate­ gies that correspond to the conceptual categories of punishment, risk, and denial. A fourth strategy which pursues both punishment and denial effects simultaneously is decapitation. This chapter explains how to identify coer­ cive air strategies from the coercer's concrete military actions, how to mea­ sure their success, and how the major strategies were developed, and it evaluates the historical effectiveness of each strategy. IDENTIFICATION OF COERCIVE AIR STRATEGIES Coercive air strategies can be identified by either of two criteria. The first criterion is a set of specific indicators, such as timing, target sets, and muni­ tions used. A maximal punishment strategy would simply blot out whole residential and commerical areas of cities. Missions could be flown at night since high standards of accuracy are not needed. Munitions would include a high proportion of incendiaries to start fires or fire storms. The campaign would be prosecuted as intensively as possible to maximize shock effects. A somewhat more genteel punishment strategy might attack civilian sectors of the economy, such as power, water, or agricultural targets such as irrigation systems, causing hardship but fewer immediate deaths. The ideal risk campaign would resemble punishment, except that rather than inflict as much harm as possible as fast as possible, it would smoothly and gradually increase the tempo of air operations, interrupting them only by pauses for diplomatic signaling. Civilian targets would be attacked, with a gradual progression from less painful to more critical targets. [55]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 56 --- Bombing to Win The ideal denial campaign would attack military targets and military pro­ duction centers. Targets could include fielded forces; theater-level command, communications, and logistics; weapons plants; and critical raw materials used in war production. Denial missions generally require