e not willing to surrender the home islands, which they thought might still be held by inflicting such high costs on American forces that they would abandon a final invasion. Second, military pressure must be maintained continuously until a satis­ factory settlement is reached. Any premature relaxation of military efforts gives the target state breathing space to restore its military capabilities, im­ proving its chances of controlling the disputed territory. Thus, truces for the purpose of facilitating negotiation or as rewards for partial concessions are likely to be counterproductive, for they have the effect of placing the target state in a stronger position to resist the coercer's demands or even to "back­ slide" from concessions already made. At the start of negotiations with China in 1951, the United States substantially ended offensive ground oper­ ations, with the result that the peace talks dragged on for two more years. In 1972 the United States terminated bombing of North Vietnam after Hanoi had agreed to a cease-fire but before Saigon's agreement had been secured; Hanoi subsequently repudiated parts of the deal and bombing had to be re­ sumed. Thus traditional theories of coercion which emphaSize carefully  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 32 --- Bombing to Win timed pauses for signaling and negotiation have it exactly backward, pro­ viding a recipe for frustration and failure. This mistake follows from the ex­ cessive focus on punishment and neglect of denial. Finally, denial is an inherently expensive coercive strategy, for it requires the coercer to demonstrate the capacity to control the disputed territory by force. Accordingly, whereas assailants can sometimes avoid the full costs of achieving victory, they cannot succeed without paying the costs of prepar­ ing for military victory. Why Success Comes Late Outstanding successes in which the coercer achieves objectives while paying only a small fraction of the battlefield costs are virtually unkn