want more than control over territory. The end of World War II in Europe also offers three additional lessons on coercive air power. First, whereas strategic air power is capable of inflicting widespread destruction on targets located in a state's homeland, strategic bombing will significantly affect a state's political calculations only to the extent it alters events on the battlefield. Second, when the opponent is a con­ tinental power, strategic air power is most effective in altering events on the battlefield when it is used to disrupt ongoing operations rather than for long-term effects. Third, the ultimately misplaced confidence with which air planners sought to achieve victory through air power at the expense of building ground forces serves as a warning for future defense policy. Perhaps the most surprising fact to emerge from studying German sur­ render decisions is that Allied strategic air power played such a minor role in the contemporary thoughts of German leaders. By far, the most crucial concern on the part of civilian and military leaders alike was the land war; the air war was a distant second. Hitler personally managed land opera­ tions of the Wehrmacht, but he paid far less attention to air defenses and even canceled the ME-262, a jet fighter that might well have prevented the Allies from gaining air superiority over Germany. The main reason is that Germany's vulnerability to air attack was tightly determined by its vulnerability on the ground. Although many air advo­ cates claimed after the war that air power was "decisive" in Western Eu­ rope, its effects could not have been achieved without the progress of Allied land armies.IS7 Consider the main independent effect air power is said to have had in this case: the destruction of the German economy. Even if one accepts the superb analysis of Alfred Mierzejewski that bombing transportation late in the war crippled the German economy, it would not have done so without Soviet progress in the east and