mb bomb can destroy the same targets provided a direct hit is achieved. It may be necessary to drop considerably more bombs to hit the target, but it is still feasible if the num­ ber of such targets is small. That is not to say that PGMs are not desirable for strikes on com­ mand and control targets. They require fewer sorties, which can be important if air resources are very li~ited, and they cause far less collateral damage. 19 Arkin, "Defeat of Iraq Sparks Debate," p. 62.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 156 --- Beyond Strategic Bombing and when military pressure will cause a change of regime or, if it does, in what direction. Military decapitation, or "strategic paralysis," is infeasible for three rea­ sons: strategic direction does not demand high-volume, real-time commu­ nication; links cannot be cut for long; and authority can be predelegated to theater commanders. PGMs do not change this state of affairs. As with po­ litical decapitation, the problem is one of intelligence, not target destruc­ tion. Large and stationary electronic communication systems can be knocked out with relative ease, but nation-states today have so many backup and work-around alternatives (such as dedicated land lines; small, mobile radios including cellular telephones; couriers traveling by car, rail, helicopter, or plane; and face-to-face meetings between leaders) that an at­ tacker cannot hope to locate and disrupt them al1.20 After the Gulf War an Iraqi army corps commander said that he had direct contact with Baghdad only once during the war, not because his links were destroyed but out of fear of being intercepted.21 Strategic-bombing proponents also say that PGMs advantage strategic air power over theater air power simply because PGMs are expensive, and strategic targets are always limited in number whereas theater targets are al­ ways virtually infinite. In fact, however, some of the most effective types of PGMs are not expensive; a typical laser-guided bomb (the GBU-12)