he target's decision calculus. Punishment strategies attempt to raise the costs of continued resistance; risk strategies, to raise the probability of suffering costs; denial strategies, to reduce the probability that resistance will yield benefits. Punishment campaigns seek to raise the societal costs of continued resis­ tance to levels that overwhelm the target state's territorial interests, causing it to concede to the coercer's demands. The common feature of all punish­ ment campaigns is that they inflict suffering on civilians, either directly or indirectly by damaging the target state's economy. Cities may be bombed in order to kill or injure the inhabitants or render them homeless. Bombing or naval blockades can cause shortages of key supplies, such as food and cloth­ ing, or deprive residents of electrical power, water, and other essential ser­ vices. By contrast, risk strategies slowly raise the probability of civilian dam­ age.6 The crucial element here is timing. The coercer puts at risk essentially 6 The idea of manipulating the risk of punishment for political purposes has largely come to be identified with the work of Thomas Schelling. Others also shared in the development of this idea, chief among them Morton A. Kaplan, Strategy of Limited Retaliation (Princeton: Cen­ ter of International Studies, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Princeton University, 1959); and Alexander 1. George, Some Thoughts on Graduated Escalation, RM-4844-PR (Santa Monica, Calif.: Rand Corporation, December 1965). [18]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 19 --- Explaining Military Coercion the same targets as in punishment strategies, but the key is to inflict civilian costs at a gradually increasing rate rather than destroy the entire target set in one fell swoop. In order to convince the opponent that much more severe damage will follow if concessions are not made, operations are slowly esca­ lated in intensity, geographical extent, or both. The coe