ulnerability increased and the 97 Alan Bullock, Hitler and Stalin: Parallel Lines (London: Harper Collins, 1991), p. 865; idem., Hitler: A Study in Tyranny, rev. ed. (New York: Harper and Row, 1962), p. 760; Heinz Guderian, Panzer Leader (New York: E.P. Dutton, 1952), pp. 370-73.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 123 --- Bombing to Win other remained constant, it would show that the first and not the second was the cause of that group's decision. Carrying out this analysis reveals that the only factor to influence any of the principal groups was military vulnerability to invasion (see Table 25). Changes in civilian vulnerability correlate with changes in groups' political behavior in only one instance (July 1943), when there was a simultaneous increase in military vulnerability. The most significant attempt to change German policy occurred when military vulnerability rose to high with the collapse of both the French and Russian fronts in July 1944, although the at­ tempted failed. Even when military vulnerability rose to very high in Janu­ ary 1945, German leaders did not surrender, not because they thought that continued resistance could affect the territorial settlement in any way but because resistance was expected to reduce the civilian costs of Soviet occu­ pation by permitting refugee flows westward. In March, when resistance in Italy and on most of the western front could no longer help reduce civilian costs, leaders in these areas began to surrender piecemeal. The two independent variables are civilian vulnerability and military vulJ nerability. Civilian vulnerability is coded as "low," meaning that although there is some risk to individuals, no major part of the population must make adjustments or compromises in their daily lives to avoid the threat; "medium," meaning that the risks to individuals has risen to the point that major parts of the population must make compromises or adjustments in their daily lives, such as evacuation or substitution, to lo