9 (May-June 1987): 195-214. 28 John Keegan, The Second World War (New York: Viking, 1990), pp. 173-208.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 30 --- Bombing to Win their forces in the Far East to commit to the battle for Moscow.29 To succeed, therefore, coercers must not only thwart the opponent's strategy but also any possible countermeasures. For coercion through denial to succeed, the coercer must exploit the par足 ticular vulnerabilities of the opponent's specific strategy. All military strate足 gies do not share the same weaknesses. Modern nation-states employ two main types of strategies in conflicts with other states: mechanized (or "con足 ventional") war and guerrilla (or "unconventional") war. In this context, "mechanized" refers to the dominance of the types of mechanical weapons and transport provided by the industrial revolution, not to battle tactics that rely on armored vehicles and rapid mobility, such as the German blitzkrieg. The objective in mechanized war is destruction of enemy forces, by means of massive, heavily armed forces that fight intense, large-scale battles along relatively well-defined fronts. Success means routing opposing forces on the battlefield by inflicting sufficient losses to destroy the cohesion of units so they cannot execute combat functions. Guerrilla warfare, in contrast, aims to gain control over population, usually beginning with villages located in re足 mote areas, and to use these as anchors to control still larger segments of the population and thus undermine support for the government. Guerrillas fight in small units dispersed over large areas with no well-defined front line. Combat is intermittent and at low intensity, avoiding major battles. The objective is gradually to wear down the opponent government's political authority and thus its ability to field military forces, rather than to destroy those forces in battle.3D From a coercer's point of view, the most important difference between these two strategies is that me