ar­ shaling yards), moving traffic, and rolling stock and cargo vessels. This mis­ sion is hard because commercial transportation systems are large and redundant and are rarely used to full capacity. Thus, the United States could not bring the German economy to quick collapse even though u.s. air forces were vastly superior. The weakness of strategic interdiction as a coercive strategy is that the at­ tacker must still pay a heavy price for victory. Strategic interdiction reduces the quantity of weapons, munitions, and supplies reaching the battlefield, but it does not thin frontline forces or rapidly reduce their effectiveness. Thus defenders can still extract a considerable toll on attacking forces. Weakened states may "deter" an opponent from pressing its advantage to final victory by threatening to exact a very high price in casualties during the final battles to overcome their still-powerful frontline forces. The purpose of operational interdiction, which destroys logistic net­ works, reinforcements, and command headquarters behind the front lines, is to stop the movement and coordination of forces throughout the theater. Disrupting these combat support functions matters most when adversaries are racing to concentrate (or counterconcentrate) forces at particular deci­ sive points. As a result, attacking rear-area military targets is likely to be most effective when fronts are fluid rather than static. Fronts become fluid when one side either breaks though the opposing line or maneuvers around the opponent's open flank. In order to achieve a breakthrough or a flank attack, the attacker must suddenly concentrate a large amount of force against a narrow sector before the defender can react. Air power can disrupt the attacker's combat support functions, slowing the attacker's concentration and giving the defender time to counterconcen­ trate. Likewise, disrupting the defender's logistics, reinforcements, and command and control delays reorganization of the defense,