precision­ guided munitions and used against Iraq-strikes against key leadership and telecommunication facilities. The main assumption is that these targets are a modem state's Achilles' heel. Regardless of the strength of a state's fielded forces or military-industrial capacity, if the leadership is knocked out, the whole house of cards comes down. These counterleadership raids also cause little collateral damage if intelligence about the targets is right. The air theorist most closely identified with decapitation is Colonel John A. Warden III, one of the principal architects of the Desert Storm air campaign. He sees leadership as the most critical element in determining a nation's will to fight: The command structure ... is the only element of the enemy-whether a civilian at the seat of government or a general directing a fleet-that can make concessions. In fact, wars through history have been fought to change (or change the mind of) the command structure---to overthrow the prince literally or figuratively or to induce the command structure to make concessioI).s. Cap­ turing or killing the state's leader has frequently been decisive. In modem times, however, it has become more difficult-but not impossible---to capture or kill the command element. At the same time, command communications have been more important than ever, and these are vulnerable to attack. When command communications suffer extreme damage ... the leadership has great difficulty in directing war efforts. In the case of an unpopular regime, the lack of communications not only inhibits the bolstering of national morale but also facilitates rebellion on the part of dissident elements.49 49 John A. Warden III, "Employing Air Power in the Twenty-first Century," in The Future of Air Power in the Aftermath of the Gulf War, ed. Richard H. Shultz Jr. and Robert 1. Pfaltzgraff Jr. (Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala.: Air University Press, 1992), p. 65; see also Bruce A. Ross, "The Case for Targeting Leadership in