ndeed impeded-mllective political ac­ tion against the government. There were no mass demonstrations against the government or any other form of popular political activity. Civil disobedi­ ence was insignificant. Far from discouraging loyalty to the Nazi regime, bombing tightened political ties, because the civilian population became more dependent on the functioning of Nazi relief organizations, without which their suffering would be even worse. People were moved not to col­ lective action against the government but to political apathy; they became obsessed with finding individual solutions to their personal problems. There are three reasons why public feeling did not directly influence Ger­ man political calculations to any important degree. First, German national­ ist sentiments made the population willing to countenance significant punishment in order to achieve the objectives of the state. Second, the gov­ ernment controlled information media and used them to indoctrinate the population to sacrifice for national goals and to believe in the evil nature of their enemies. Third, the state anticipated dissent and subversion and took active measures against them. As a revolutionary movement, the Nazis had long allocated large resources to instruments of repression. Aside from producing no political effects, the Douhet strategy also failed to contribute significantly to Germany's economic problems. Although total 46 Bidinian, Combined Allied Bombing Offensive, pp. 29, 35; Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive 4: 50; USSBS, Summary Report (European War), p. 15. 47 The actual damage inflicted on German towns was between a third to a half the damage originally expected by the British in 1942. The British had assumed that the American air forces would also devote their efforts mainly to morale bombing, but they did not. In addi­ tion, the predominance of stone rather than wood construction in German cities inherently limited their combustibility. See Horatio Bon