ave the costs of resistance on that front? Unilateral sur­ render does not appear to have been considered. Yet even without Allied agreement, we would expect German commanders in the west to have sur­ rendered if they could do so without jeopardizing operations in the east. That such surrender would expose the rear of troops fighting in the east to the advancing Western Allies need not have been a concern, since if the Al­ lies therefore advanced farther than planned, the extension of Western Al­ lied occupation would have protected the endangered civilians from the Soviets. The reason the Germans did not surrender unilaterally in the west in J an­ uary 1945 is that they believed the Western Allies would not occupy all of Germany but would leave a significant portion to Soviet control. As John Keegan explains, UBy one of the most bizarre lapses Of security in the entire war, the demarcation line agreed between Moscow, London and Washing­ ton had become known to the Germans during 1944, and the last fight of the Wehrmacht in the west was motivated by the urge to hold open the line of retreat across the Elbe to the last possible moment.u1SO Further, the combat 149 Armstrong, Unconditional Surrender, pp. 140, 204. 150 Keegan, Second World War, pp. 532-33.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 141 --- Bombing to Win potential of German forces on the eastern front depended on flows of sup­ plies and equipment from industries in western Germany, which would be lost if the western front collapsed. lSI By March 1945 the Ruhr was producing little and only a small portion of that could be shipped east, and that motive for defending in the west disap­ peared. Hitler's personal authority also declined as he isolated himself in his Berlin bunker, and both civilian and military leaders had more freedom of action. The motive for defending in the east, however, remained un­ changed, although the prospects of holding on for long had become quite dim. Yet, German leaders still did no