read like a windblown fire throughout Germany, led to the formation of local councils, and in early November caused the Kaiser to abdicate and the October Government to resign in favor of a government that ended the war.26 Similarly, the uprisings in Iraq in 1991 occurred after its army had suf­ fered a catastrophic battlefield defeat. Many of the defeated soldiers re­ turning home were Shi'as and Kurds who already hated the regime for previous repression and for placing them in the way of Coalition firepower. They linked up with civilians also already so disaffected with from ruling regime that they did not require the additional motive of civilian cost to re­ volt. Thus, those who believe that states can be coerced by encouraging popular unrest that avoids messy battles have it backward; smashing the army, not punishing civilians, is the key to revolution in serious interna­ tional disputes. 26 Feliks Gross, The Seizure of Political Power in a Century of Revolution (New York: Philo­ sophical Library; 1958), pp. 192---95; Katherine Chorely, Armies and the Art of Revolution (Boston: Beacon Press, 1973), pp. 11()-23; Vincent J. Esposito, A Concise History of World War I (New York: Praeger, 1964).  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 28 --- Bombing to Win Why Conventional Risk Strategies Fail The alternative countercivilian strategy relies on the manipulation of risk of future damage rather than on inflicting maximum actual damage. Risk strategies are usually less effective than punishment campaigns, for three reasons. First, the argument on which the strategy is based, that coercive leverage can come only from fear of future damage rather than actual damage, does not address a real distinction in the causal mechanism of the strategies. Given the limits of conventional weapons, punishment strategies never ac­ tually "kill the hostage"; damage accumulates slowly, so the coercer can al­ ways inflict still more by continuing the assault. Second, for any given level of c