country involved in a long war can dra足 matically increase military production, months or years are required. Against a PGM-equipped opponent, any country at all, with the possible exception of a few of the world's largest economies, would lose its entire 24 "One does not conduct an attack against industry or infrastructure because of the effect it might or might not have on field forces. Rather, one undertakes such an attack for its direct effect on national leaders and commanders who must assess the cost of rebuilding, the effect on the state's economic position in the postwar period, the internal political effect on their own survival, and the cost versus the potential gain from continuing the war." Warden, "Em足 ploling Air Power," pp. 67-68. 2 States rarely initiate conflicts that they expect to become wars of attrition. John J. Mearsheimer, Conventional Deterrence (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1983). 26 In fact, Egypt and Syria suffered these losses against a non-PGM-equipped opponent; had Israel fielded PGMs on a large scale, their losses would have been even higher. Chaim Herzog, The Arab-Israeli Wars (New York: Random House, 1982), p. 341; and Frank Gervasi, Thunder over the Mediterranean (New York: David McKay, 1975), pp. 406-]. Although these were both desert wars, terrain makes less difference to the destructiveness of PGMs than to which types of PGMs inflict the damage. In close terrain, in which small ground units are harder to detect, air-launched PGMs would do less damage, but ground-launched ones would do more. An analysiS of aircraft losses would show the same patterns as do tanks, al足 though terrain makes no difference. 27 Approximately one thousand Merkava tanks were produced between 1977 and 1993. Christopher Foss, ed., Jane's Armour and Artillery, 1993-94 (Alexandria, Va.: Jane's Informa足 tion Group, 1993), pp. 58-59.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 158 --- Beyond Strategic Bombing prewar force before replacement production could make