ell swoop. In order to convince the opponent that much more severe damage will follow if concessions are not made, operations are slowly esca­ lated in intensity, geographical extent, or both. The coercer must signal clearly that the attacks are contingent on the target's behavior and will be stopped upon compliance with the coercer's demands. At the same time, the coercer must be careful not to "kill the hostage" by destroying every­ thing of value to the target, for it would then be impossible to threaten more to come? The coercer may interrupt the operations temporarily in order to provide time for reflection or negotiation or to reward the target state for concessions, thus encouraging minor demonstrations of willingness to ac­ commodate the assailant's demands as well as major concessions. Denial strategies target the opponent's military ability to achieve its terri­ torial or other political objectives, thereby compelling concessions in order to avoid futile expenditure of further resources. Unlike countercivilian strategies, denial strategies make no special effort to cause suffering to the opponent's society, only to deny the opponent hope of achieving the dis­ puted territorial objectives. Thus, denial campaigns focus on the target state's military strategy.8 Since coercive strategies correspond to specific elements in a target state's decision calculus, explaining when punishment, risk, and denial strategies are effective provides a general answer to the larger question of when mili­ tary coercion succeeds and fails. To answer this question, I want to set out the main propositions of a denial theory of military coercion and then ex­ plain the logic behind each of them. PROPOSITIONS ABOUT SUCCESSFUL MILITARY COERCION No one coercive strategy is likely to succeed under all circumstances. Still, there are conditions under which one strategy is more likely to succeed than another. Specifically, in conventional disputes, coercion is most likely to suc­ ceed whe