ectiveness of both threats to civilians ("punishment") and threats of military failure ("denial") for deter­ rence. Punishment threatens to inflict costs heavier than the value of any­ thing the challenger could gain, and denial threatens to defeat the adventure, so that the challenger gains nothing but must still suffer the costs of the con­ flice7 Most studies of military coercion have investigated only the pUnish­ ment of civilians. They have omitted the use of coercive power to deny the target state the military capacity to control the contested territory.I8 The bal­ ance-of-interests school maintains, in effect, that the side more willing to risk pUnishment will prevaiJ.19 Even those who see the military balance as the key to coercion employ punishment-based logic; they assume the goal is to create a monopoly of force that enables the coercer to threaten the victim with un­ limited punishment.2o Confining military coercion to countercivilian attacks raises both empiri­ cal and theoretical problems. On the empirical side, ignoring denial strate­ gies distorts our understanding of important historical cases when military, 15 Schelling, Arms and Influence, pp. 69-91. 16 On requirements for successful deterrence, see John J. Mearsheimer, Conventional Deter­ rence (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1983). 17 Glenn Snyder, Deterrence by Punishment and Denial, Research Monograph no. 1 (Prince­ ton: Princeton University, Center of International Studies, 1959). 18 George writes: "Coercive diplomacy can succeed only if the opponent accepts as credible the threat of punishment for non-compliance with the demands made upon him." Limits of Coercive Diplomacy, p. 238. Betts says: "The notion of blackmail in this study ... means coer­ cion by the threat of punishment." Nuclear Blackmail, p. 4. Ellsberg notes: "My problem as a blackmailer is to convince you that I am 'too likely' to respond with my second strategy, Pun­ ish, for you to accept the risk that your own second stra