y, because this is fixed by its capabilities or form of political organization, it often has great ability to minimize the effects of the coercer's attacks. The target state may have a considerable cushion above military requirements, allowing it to ab­ sorb significant losses without endangering its objectives. Also, some mili­ tary strategies are much more sensitive to losses of certain types of forces than others; in certain categories even heavy losses may have little effect on the outcome. For example, the United States inflicted heavy losses on North Vietnamese POL stockpiles in 1965-1968, but these had hardly any effect on the progress of the war. Similarly, because Germany's strategy in World War II did not depend on the ability to move resources overseas, the loss of the German surface navy had little affect on the outcome of the war. If losses can be regenerated quickly enough, moreover, they may not affect ultimate outcomes. For example, during the course of 1941 the Red Army lost over 3 million men, compared to its prewar strength of 3.5 million, but it was sub­ stantially rebuilt by the next summer.28 Finally, the opponent can often com­ pensate for losses by abandoning low-priority missions and reallocating remaining resources to the most important objectives. To compensate for heavy naval losses in the early years of World War II, Britain substantially withdrew its fleet from the Pacific and the Mediterranean to concentrate on the vital Atlantic, and in late 1941, the Soviets withdrew large numbers of 27 Aside from increasing the risk of further attacks if Libya did not stop supporting terror­ ism, a second objective appears to have been to kill Khaddafi himself. Tim Zimmermann, "The American Bombing of Libya: A Success for Coercive Diplomacy?" Survival 29 (May-June 1987): 195-214. 28 John Keegan, The Second World War (New York: Viking, 1990), pp. 173-208.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 30 --- Bombing to Win their forces in the Far East to comm