(thousands) 14 36 54 227 1,189 477 SOURCE: British Bombing Survey Unit, Strategic Air War against Germany, tables 10, 11, and 12. a Includes airframe and aircraft engine plants, military vehicles, ball bearing, ordnance, powder, steel, and coke producers, and other war industries. RAF data generally include air­ fields and radars because statistics of subdivisions of target systems are available only for 1944. b Includes army installations, oil plants, fuel dumps, rail yards, bridges, and other trans­ portation targets. , Includes German air force, navy and V-weapons targets. Early in the war, effort in this category was devoted mainly to submarine bases; later it was devoted mainly to airfields and V-weapons. invasion itself. As the threat of imminent invasion receded in fall of 1940, however, Bomber Command returned to oil, abandoning it in favor of mar­ shalling yards in July 1941 after Germany occupied the Balkans and im­ proved its access to oil. In November 1941 bombing operations were terminated as losses mounted and results appeared negligible.34 The campaign failed, hardly slowing the Wehrmacht's defeat of France or preparations to attack Russia. Further, although the British denied the Luft­ waffe the air superiority necessary for a successful invasion, the deciding factor was the shortage of skilled German pilots, not aircraft. Thus, it was at­ trition in the air, not the bombing of German industries, which made the dif­ ference. Bombing failed partly because it did little damage. Because of a shortage of bombers, the RAP could drop only two hundred tons on any given day on targets in Germany. Meanwhile, German air defenses forced the RAF to abandon daylight raids early in the war and bomb only at night, thus in­ creasing navigation and aiming errors to the point that only one-third of the bombs fell within five miles of the target area.35 More important, any damage inflicted by bombing the primary resources of oil and transportation could contribute litt