f --- Page 62 --- Bombing to Win lished the Royal Air Force as an independent service equivalent to the Army and Navy.13 In other words, the creation of the RAF was closely linked to the doctrine of bombing the enemy's population. Second, British practical success in bombing rebellious Iraqi and Afghan tribesmen into submission during the 1920S encouraged belief in the effi­ cacy of punishment, even though such small campaigns over relatively minor issues against primitive peoples with no means of defense had lim­ ited relevance to a future European war. The less successful RAF bombing campaign against Germany in 1918 would have been a far superior founda­ tion on which to build an air doctrine, but no scientific investigation of it was ever undertaken.14 Finally, the RAF's organizational interests influenced its preferred doc­ trine. During the interwar years, the RAF was competing for autonomy, wealth, and size with the Royal Navy, whose first priority was to protect British interests in the Pacific, and the Army, which placed primary impor­ tance on various imperial policy duties. To succeed in this competition, the RAF needed its own mission (bombing Germany) and a doctrine that promised cheap victory, relative to World War I, if it were endowed with su­ periority over its continental opponents. Winning through bombing civil­ ians was made to order for these purposes, since it promised a swift victory without the commitment of ground forces to the Continent. ls In contrast to the British, American air strategy aimed not at killing large numbers of civilians directly but at causing general social collapse through the precision bombing of key industrial nodes. The theory of the industrial web was developed in the mid-1930S by a group of young air officers at the U.S. Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS), then the highest educational estab­ lishment for American airmen, who later wrote AWPD-1, the first u.s. air strategy plan in World War II. The key assumption embedde