scovery of alternatives. The history of wartime food short­ ages in Britain during the Napoleonic wars, World War I, and World War II, illustrates this point. Attempts to blockade Britain into submission by ex­ ploiting its excessive dependence on food imports failed in part because the ability of the British to compensate for food shortages actually grew faster than their dependence on food imports during each period.19 Finally, the citizenry of the target state is not likely to tum against its gov­ ernment because of civilian punishment. The supposed causal chain-civil­ ian hardship produces public anger which forms political opposition against the government-does not stand up. One reason it does not is that a key assumption behind this argument-that economic deprivation causes popular unrest-is false. As social scientists have shown, economic depri­ vation does often produce personal frustration, but collective violence against governments requires populations to doubt the moral worth of the political system as a whole, as opposed to specific policies, leaders, or re­ sults. Political alienation is more important than economic deprivation as a cause of revolutions.2o 18 Robin Higham, Air Power: A Concise History (New York: St. Martin's, 1972), pp. 114-19. 19 Mancur Olson Jr., The Economics of the Wartime Shortage: A History of British Food Supplies in the Napoleonic War and in World Wars I and II (Durham, N.C.: Duke University Press, 1963), P·142. 20 On the causes of popular unrest, see David Snyder and Charles Tilly, "Hardship and Col­ lective Violence in France, 1830 to 1960," American Sociological Review 37 (October 1972): 520-32; Charles Tilly, Louise Tilly, and Richard Tilly, The Rebellious Century, 1830-1930 (Cam­ bridge: Harvard University Press, 1975); Edward N. Muller, Aggressive Political Participation (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1979); and Steven Finkel and James Rule, "Relative Deprivation and Related Psychological Theories of Civil Violen