trations that may be encountered on the way and bypassing stronger ones. To defeat the attacker, the defender attempts to reestablish a continuous front to block further penetration and to counterattack the vulnerable flanks of the attack足 ing spearheads. Thus, while air support immediately in front of spearheads is important, interdicting the movement of defending reserves is the most crucial mission. Interdiction blunts the threat to the spearheads' flanks and delays the defender's efforts to re-form a solid front. At the same time, di足 rect support of the attacking spearheads is less effective because their rapid movement makes distinquishing friend from foe difficult. In this case, ground support merges into operational paralysis, since both are oriented toward stopping the effective movement of opposing reserve forces. Simi-  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 79 --- Coercive Air Power larly, after a breakthrough, the defender's main concern is with stopping the forward advance of the attacking spearheads, by blocking their supply lines and operational reserves, after which the spearheads themselves become significantly less mobile and more vulnerable to counterattack. In guerrilla warfare, when meaningful counterconcentration does not occur and when logistic requirements are minuscule, air power is most ef足 fectively used directly against guerrillas rather than against their combat support functions. The ability of air power to substitute for ground power is significantly constrained by tremendous difficulties in identification of friend and foe from the air, however, which can be offset only partially by increasing loiter time over the target and coordination between air and ground units. Decapitation The use of air power for decapitation-a strategy spawned by precision足 guided munitions and used against Iraq-strikes against key leadership and telecommunication facilities. The main assumption is that these targets are a modem state's Achilles' heel. Regardl