leading, however. In fact, Hitler's power was not ab­ solute. German decision making was not different in kind from that of all other possible targets of coercion, only in degree. Modern nation-states in serious disputes are normally quite resistant to coercion; Germany in 1945 was extremely so. To understand Germany's failure to surrender, it is helpful to divide the problem into two parts. The first is why air attacks against German civilians failed to cause Germany to accept unconditional surrender. Al­ though German leaders tried to mitigate the damage, aerial punishment played no important role in decisions about surrender. The reason is that the most significant threat to the German population was the prospect of Russian occupation, which could not be avoided by surrendering uncon­ ditionally. The second is to explain why Germany did not surrender when its mili­ tary strategy for defense of the homeland became untenable. Germany might have surrendered at three points: July 1944 when Allied offensives shattered German lines in both France and Russia and demonstrated that the Allies had sufficient military power to conquer Germany unless they could be deterred or diverted; January 1945 when the failure of the German Ardennes Offensive and the successful Russian offensive in Poland showed that Germany was likely to be overrun and could not inflict enough casual­ ties to deter the Allies; and March 1945 when Hitler's ability to control his subordinates broke down. 2 United States Strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS), Summary Report (European War) (Wash­ ington, D.C.: GPO, 1945), p. 36; and Kenneth Hewitt, "Place Annihilation: Area Bombing and the Fate of Urban Places," Annals of the Association of American Geographers 73, no. 2 (1983): 257---84. 3 There is also an argument that Germany would have surrendered had the Allies aban­ doned unconditional surrender. Anne Armstrong, Unconditional Surrender: The Impact of the Casablanca Policy upon World War II (New Brunswick,