willing to support and implement Hitler's decisions. Although Nazi leaders competed fiercely to extend their power over each other, all remained loyal to Hitler, partly because of their confidence in his ability, and even more because their personal power de­ pended on their standing in the Nazi party, whose stability in turn de­ pended on Hitler's charismatic leadership and unifying control. The civilian leadership comprised three separate empires, obedient to the fuhrer and in deadly competition with one another. The first was the Nazi party machine, controlled by Martin Bormann, which had tentacles deep in society. The party had its own press, control over education and regional government, and a myriad of paramilitary organizations such as the Hitler Youth. Second was the internal security hierarchy, headed by Heinrich Himmler, which included the Gestapo, the Reich Central Security Office, the assassination squads of the Sichersheitdienst (SD), and Hitler's private army, the Waffen SS. The third empire consisted of the tools for state control over the economy, including all the resources and productive capability that supplied German military forces; this domain was first headed by Hermann Goering and later by Albert Speer. The third leadership group was the military, of which the most important component was the Army. Following the penetration of the Nazi social revo­ lution throughout German society during the 1930S, the Army was the only remaining institution that could oppose the civilian leadership. Although the Nazis went to great lengths to assimilate the officer corps and Hitler took control of military operations himself in 1942, they did not entirely succeed in extinguishing Army independence because many officers were politically conservative and not attracted to Nazi ideology.85 Most important, the only way to change German state policy decided by the Nazis was to oust them from power, and only the Army had sufficient force to do so. The German offic