n Military Nazis Army Resistance August 1940 1st Berlin raid low nil' ns ns ns? December 1940 Regular British medium nil ns ns ns? bombing November 1942 Stalingrad, Torch, medium low ns ns ns? EIAlamein July 1943 Hamburg, Kursk, high medium ns Is Is Sicily July 1944 Breakthroughs in high high ns Is+ Is+ Russia and France October 1944 Red Army enters very high high ns (Is) _b East Prussia January 1945 Breakthrough in very high very high (is) (Is/is) Poland March 1945 Breakthrough in very high very high is is West/ economic collapse , Meaning that there was no current or foreseeable threat, although one might arise in the future. From at least December 1941, for instance, Germany faced a coalition with superior overall resources, so ultimate defeat could not be ruled out. b In the aftermath of the July 1944 coup attempt, the civilian resistance was totally supressed. ns = no concessions Is = some in the group will make concessions but not surrender the homeland is = some in the group will surrender homeland o = some would prefer concessions but are not willing to act + = larger number willing to act than previously ? = little information available civilians were vulnerable to air attack. Vulnerability remained low until De足 cember 1940; although the British launched raids against urban centers which caused an estimated 349 deaths, no extraordinary resources were de足 voted to the protection of urban areas.99 With the RAP's first area attack against a German city, Mannheim, in December 1940, civilian vulnerability rose to medium. Although raids on German cities became a regular part of the war, the numbers of casualties were kept relatively low by a combination of effective air defense, fire fighting, and civil defense measures. Municipal fire departments were na足 tionalized and augmented by fire-fighting sections of the German armed forces and by "plant brigades" organized in individual industrial facto足 ries. Civilian deaths in 1941 and 1942 are estimated at 2,785 and