took the problem of coercion seriously enough in the years prior to the actual dispute to dedicate analytic resources to under­ standing it. In particular, the mechanisms by which military effects are sup­ posed to translate into political results are hardly ever studied.41 Reviewing literally thousands of planning documents for the preparation of this book, I found innumerable studies of how forces would be applied to destroy a given target set but no document, at any level of government, of more than a page to explain how destroying the target was supposed to activate mech­ anisms (popular revolt, coup, social disintegration, strategic paralysis, or even thwarting enemy military strategy) which would lead to the desired political change. Given the vast availability of previously classified docu­ ments, I can only conclude that they do not exist. As a result, coercive disputes generally provoke hurried scrambles to as­ semble ad hoc policies by individuals few of whom had thought much about such problems before and who are under tremendous time pressure to produce recommendations that not only stand a chance of success but also can win out in bureaucratic competitions of power and authority. Such a situation practically guarantees poor evaluation. In this environment, a "man with a plan" that promises quick, cheap success is likely to prevail. Possible weaknesses in the plan's assumptions about coercive mechanisms are likely to pass uninvestigated or even unnoticed. Finally, obfuscation has impeded effective evaluation. Although most strategic bombing campaigns have employed punishment strategies, co­ ercers have generally tried to hide the true purpose of such attacks from possibly squeamish publics or allies. During World War II, the British government denied that it was carrying out "indiscriminate" area bomb­ ing and privately defined fire raids as countermilitary attacks because they targeted "industrial workers." At the same time, the chief of the u.s. Army A