elling and the Manipulation of Risk In the two decades after World War II, social scientists devoted consider­ able attention to the problem of military coercion. The most important prod­ uct of this effort was the concept of manipulation of risk. The nuclear revolution and in particular the advent of mutual assured destruction cre­ ated both new restrictions and new opportunities for coercion. Since full­ scale thermonuclear war would devastate both sides, any threat to carry out a full-scale punishment campaign lost all credility. At the same time, since damage from even limited nuclear strikes would outweigh the national in­ terest at stake in almost any dispute, the way was opened to coercion through manipulation of that risk. Later, these ideas were applied to purely conventional conflicts as well. The idea of manipulating the risk of punishment for political purposes has largely come to be identified with Thomas Schelling's book Arms and In­ fluence.27 The heart of this strategy is to raise the risk of civilian damage slowly, compelling the opponent to concede to avoid suffering future costs. 26 H. H. Arnold and Ira C. Eaker, Winged Warfare (New York: 1941), p. 134. For the impact of pacifism and antimilitarism on the u.s. Army between the world wars, see Ronald Schaf­ fer, "The War Department's Defense of ROTC, 192(}-1940," Wisconsin Magazine of History 53 (Winter H)69-70): 108-20. 27 Thomas. C. Schelling, Arms and Influence (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1966). Oth­ ers also shared in the development of this idea, chief among them Daniel Ellsberg, "Theory and Practice of Blackmail," P-3883 (Santa Monica, Calif.: Rand Corporation, 1968); Morton A. Kaplan, The Strategy of Limited Retaliation, Center of International Studies Policy Memo­ randum no. 19 (Princeton: Center of International Studies, Woodrow Wilson School of [66]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 67 --- Coercive Air Power Like the Douhet model, the Schelling model focuses on population and e