t Rand Hath Wrought," Foreign Policy, no. 4 (Fall 1971): 111-29, and Bernard Brodie, "Why Were We So (Strategically) Wrong?" Foreign Policy, no. 5 (Winter 1971-72): 151-87.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 3 --- Why Study Military Coercion? Can air power alone persuade states to alter their behavior? Some propose as a general defense policy to make strategic bombing the U.S. weapon of choice.3 Ironically, despite the growing importance of coercion as an instrument of statecraft, the study of coercion has stagnated in recent years,4 partly be­ cause coercion is often identified with offensive rather than defensive na­ tional goals. In addition, coercion is seen as morally repugnant because it usually involves hurting civilians. Many considered the u.s. bombing of North Vietnam immoral as well as ineffective. s Coercion has thus come to be viewed as the "dark side" of international relations theory. Dark or not, scholars of international politics cannot avoid the obligation to study how states use force to compel others to do their bidding. Although moral issues cannot be resolved on the basis of knowledge alone, social sci­ entists have a responsibility to advance knowledge on subjects relevant to policy, especially when the decisions we make have great moral conse­ quences. Moreover, the concern that studying coercion will provide strate­ gic tools for international aggressors is misplaced. In fact, states tend to overestimate the prospects of coercion, and if humanitarian values deter scholars from studying the effectiveness of immoral practices in peacetime, we run the risk that ignorance could facilitate their use in wartime. As coer­ cion becomes more prominent in policy debates, it is crucial to separate er­ roneous from valid beliefs, for an intellectual vacuum gives free rein to bad ideas and bad policies. Consider, for example, that in August 1990 strategic bombing advocates were able to lobby successfully for air strikes on Iraqi 3 The clearest call fo