rown more and more powerful as both aircraft and weapons have improved. Also, air power can be employed much more selectively than the other two instruments for either punishment 'or denial. In feudal times, land power was more effective at inflicting punishment than for denial. Control of territory revolved around fortified castles, which were extremely difficult to capture, and armies were small enough that they could and often did raid deep into enemy territory, sowing destruction and disease over wide areas. Indeed, armies invaded hostile territory less to seize strategic points than simply to pillage the land, and they rarely en­ gaged each other in battle.51 During the early modern period, a host of factors, including changes in military technology, rivalry between monarchs and nobility, and the rise of state bureaucracy, brought about a shift from small feudal and mercenary forces to large standing armies.52 The rise of nation-states able to maintain standing armies equipped with cannon and siege trains increased land 5D The modem nation-state has been defined by consolidation of the entire population within territorial limits under a common organ of government; differentiation among eco­ nomic, judicial, administrative, and military functions; recognition of the state by other states as a sovereign authority within its borders; a conscious sense of community of feeling; and a common sense of political allegiance. See Samuel E. Finer, "State-and Nation-Building in Eu­ rope: The Role of the Military," in The Formation of National States in Western Europe, ed. Charles Tilly (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1976), pp. 84-163. 51 C. W. C. Oman, The Art of War in the Middle Ages (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1953), pp.61-63· 52 Michael Roberts, The Military Revolution, 1560-1660 (Belfast: Queen's University of Belfast, 1956).  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 40 --- Bombing to Win power's ability to seize territory. Still, punishment remained impor