t that Germany would have surrendered had the Allies aban­ doned unconditional surrender. Anne Armstrong, Unconditional Surrender: The Impact of the Casablanca Policy upon World War II (New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1961). My explanation based on changes in Germany's military vulnerability is broadly consistent with this view, although the exact terms the Allies could have obtained at a given time would have depended on the military situation at that moment.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 89 --- Bombing to Win In July 1944 Germany did not surrender because senior leaders did not be­ lieve that the conquest of Germany itself had become inevitable. The Nazis believed that a severe blow could still shock the West into breaking the coali­ tion with the Soviet Union and making a separate peace. Most Army leaders believed that strategic withdrawals could still establish defensible positions. The dissidents who tried to overthrow Hitler in July 1944 hoped to sign an armistice with the western Allies, because they believed that, while a two­ front war was hopeless, continuation of the war against Russia alone was not. In January 1945 Germany's military position had become untenable, be­ cause German forces could not prolong the war long enough to inflict sig­ nificant attrition. Nevertheless, surrender did not take place, because most Nazis believed that enough new resources could be generated to extend the fighting long enough for cumulative losses or divergent interests to split the Allies. Moreover, the generals had been too demoralized by the aftermath of the July 1944 coup to overthrow Hitler. By March 1945 both Nazis and the military saw that final defeat was cer­ tain and that Hitler's grip on power was significantly looser. Still, immedi­ ate surrender did not occur, because continued resistance was expected to mitigate the civilian costs of eventual defeat. At this point, although further resistance could not avoid defeat and would involve a