they had taken U.s. strategic air strikes as evidence that there would be no extensive bom- 10 Thomas E. Griffith Jr., Strategic Attack of National Electrical Systems (Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala.: School of Advanced Airpower Studies, 1993). In Iraq, the groups that revolted­ the Kurds in the North and the Shi'ites in the South-did so because of long-standing griev­ ances against oppression by Hussein's Sunni-dominated regime, not because of sudden economic deprivation. 11 PGMs are thought of as increasing the destructiveness of conventional war because they are much more effective against military and certain economic targets. The most devastating way to attack civilians, however, is with incendiary bombs, which need not be guided be­ cause they work by starting massive fire storms, not by destroying individual houses one by one. 12 In effect, strategic bombing enthusiasts are claiming that we are fully able now to imple­ ment the strategies of coercive diplomacy proposed by Thomas Schelling and Alexander George. 13 Warden, "Employing Air Power," p. 72.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 154 --- Beyond Strategic Bombing bardment of Baghdad and Basra and that therefore they should "hold tight and the Americans will go away." The Interior Minister said, "We would have understood carpet bombing, but we didn't understand this other"; he thought the United States was just being spiteful.I4 Further, punishment cannot be as finely modulated as risk proponents assert, both because coercers rarely have good enough intelligence about opponents' stockpiles of key components and because they cannot accu­ rately predict how opponents will adjust to damage. During the Gulf War, Coalition aircraft did more damage to Iraqi power plants than intended. Although targeting was supposed to be limited to transformers and switching yards, the generator halls and turbines of nearly every major plant were also destroyed.15 Repair assistance is also not a powerful in­ centive, because ta