tary victory. Although coercers and war fighters may seek identical goals, such as the reduction of political aims, agreement to a cease-fire, withdrawal of forces, or even sur­ render, how they attain them is quite different. Brute force first routs op­ posing forces on the battlefield and then imposes political demands on a defenseless victim, bringing the defeated government to the point where it no longer controls organized forces capable of significantly impeding the victor's operations. For example, by early May 1945 the German govern­ ment could no longer organize any concerted resistance to Allied occupa­ tion of the country, even though some combat units remained in the field. By contrast coercion seeks to change the behavior of states that still retain the capacity for organized military resistance.2 As a result, coercion seeks to achieve the same goals as war fighting, but at less cost to both sides. While the coercer hopes to attain concessions without having to pay the full cost of military victory, the target may perceive that accepting the assailant's de­ mands will be less costly than fighting to a finish. For example, Japan's sur­ render in August 1945 saved the lives of many thousands on both sides. In short, military coercion attempts to achieve political goals "on the cheap." 1 This is a broader definition of denial than that used by deterrence theorists, }Vho usually refer only to defeat of an anticipated attack. For an example of the narrower definition, see Glenn Snyder, Deterrence by Punishment and Denial, Research Monograph no. 1 (Princeton: Princeton University, Center of International Studies, 1959). 2 Thomas C. Schelling includes bargaining between victor and defeated within the rubric of coercion, but this definition is too broad to be helpfuL Since the victor must pay the full costs of winning the war to reach this situation, it gains no benefit from coercion, and since the victor has the ability to inflict unlimited harm on the defeate