ntified. These cases include explicit statements of the form "Do X or I'll do Y" or implicit threats where there is evidence they were understood by the target state. Cases that involve highly ambiguous threats are excluded, as are those in which it is not certain that the target perceived a coercive threat. This coding rule, for example, does not count Truman's movement of B-29s to Britain during the Berlin crisis as nuclear coercion because there is no evidence that the Soviets understood this as a threat to launch an attack if the blockade continued, but it does include Soviet coercion of the British and French during the 1956 Suez crisis because the record indicates that the British and French understood themselves to be victims of coercion. This rule has the effect of defining coercive attempts from the target's perspec­ tive, which is appropriate given that the theory is about changes in the tar­ get state's decisions. If we cannot establish that the substance of the threat and the conditions of its execution were communicated to the target, we cannot determine whether a coercive failure was due to insufficient threats or to communication gaps. This rule might exaggerate the effectiveness of countercivilian threats based on risk, since excluding instances of highly ambiguous threats may disproportionately eliminate cases of low-credibil­ ity threats. To make operationalization easier for purposes of a statistical-correlative test, I test only a parsimonious version of the denial theory which includes only its main propositions. This procedure has the effect of reducing the power of the theory somewhat because any variance accounted for by its subsidiary propositions will count against the theory in this test. The full power of the theory cannot be tested without understanding concrete air strategies and their application in specific cases, because appropriate oper­ ationalization of all the variables depends on the context of a particular co­ ercive dispute. T