roved administrative controls, enabled states to mobilize, arm, and maintain in the field armies of unprecedented size. Since no fixed fortification can resist the firepower of industrial armies for long, land armies are now the only means of defense against each other. Bat­ tle has become decisive and the defeat of the enemy army opens the way to unlimited territorial gains. In short, denial has become the main function of land power. As long as the enemy army remains undefeated, however, the reach of modern armies is very limited. The size of modern armies and lethal- 53 John Childs, Armies and Warfare in Europe, 1648-1789 (Manchester: Manchester Univer­ si7. Press, 1982); and William H. McNeill, Plagues and Peoples (New York: Anchor Press, 1976). 4 For excellent discussions of the nature of land warfare in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, see Richard Preston and Sydney Wise, Men in Arms (New York: Praeger, 1956), chap. 9; and Robert S. Quimby, The Background of Napoleonic Warfare: The Theory of Military Tac­ tics in Eighteenth-Century France (New York: AMS Press, 1968). The strategic consequences of industrialization are discussed in Bernard Brodie and Fawn M. Brodie, From Crossbow to H-Bomb: The Evolution of the Weapons and Tactics of Warfare (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1973), pp. 124-71; John U. Nef, War and Human Progress (Cambridge: Harvard Univer­ sity Press, 1950), pp. 302-28; and Van Creveld, Supplying War. The best brief discussions of the relationship between nationalism and the conduct of war are R. R. Palmer, "Frederick the Great, Guibert, Bulow: From Dynastic to National War," in Makers of Modern Strategy, ed. Ed­ ward Meade Earle (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1943), pp. 49-74; and Howard, War in European History, pp. 75--93.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 41 --- Explaining Military Coercion ity of their weapons makes possible the formation of effectively continuous fronts, which prevent access to the enemy's popu