urmoil: "What civil or military authority could keep order, public services functioning, and production going under such a threat?" Finally, domestic unrest causes grass-roots opposition against the home govern­ ment: "A complete breakdown of the social structure cannot but take place in a country subjected to this kind of merciless pounding from the air. The time would soon come when, to put an end to horror and suffering, the peo­ ple themselves, driven by the instinct of self-preservation, would rise up and demand an end to the war."B The first air force to put the Douhet model into practice in its doctrine and force posture was that of Great Britain. Following Germany's punishment attacks, the Royal Air Force was born and the goal of its first chief, Hugh Trenchard, was to build a force capable of striking at the heart of German civilian morale. According to the British representatives to the Inter-Allied Aviation Committee, the effect of Trenchard's strategy "would be that the German government would be forced to face very considerable and con­ stantly increasing civil pressure which might result in political disintegra- 5 This discussion generally supports Walter Millis's assessment of the general pattern of the evolution of air doctrine: "Independent power came first; to attain the goal it was next necessary to develop a 'doctrine' which would make it military valid; finally, with the doc­ trine established, it was necessary to invent a weapon which would justify the strategy." Arms and Men: A Study in American Military History (New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1956), p. 231. 6 Although historians continue to debate the influence that Douhet's writings had on American, British, and German air theorists, there is no doubt that the set of ideas contained in his writings were common knowledge. See R. R. Flugel, "United States Air Power Doc­ trine: A Study of the Influence of William Mitchell and Giulio Douhet at the Air Corps Tacti­ cal School" (Di