­ gies and target states' vulnerabilities. Chapter 3 explains the major coer­ cive air strategies that have been used in international disputes; Chapters 4 through 8 investigate in detail how these strategies have fared in five im­ portant cases. Finally, Chapter 9 draws theoretical and policy implications from my findings. [11]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 12 --- Explaining Military Coercion Coercion, like deterrence, seeks to affect the behavior of an opponent by manipulating costs and benefits. Deterrence, however, tries to persuade a state not to initiate a specific action because the perceived benefits do not justify the estimated costs and risks; coercion involves persuading an oppo­ nent to stop an ongoing action or to start a new course of action by changing its calculations of costs and benefits. Accordingly, coercion occurs whenever a state must choose between making concessions or suffering the conse­ quences of continuing its present course of action. As a result, the universe of coercion includes nearly all attempts by states to force others to accept a change in the status quo, including virtually all wars. The two main excep­ tions are faits accomplis, which change the status quo so quickly that the op­ ponent has no opportunity to resist, and wars of extermination, in which no concessions would be accepted. Although it is often pursued deliberately, coercion is not defined by the intentions, or even the behavior, of the coercer but by the nature of the deci­ sions faced by potential target states. Targets decide whether to make con­ cessions and, as independent actors, can surrender without formal negotiations or explicit demands by the coercer. Even if the coercer makes no threats, no demands, and does not even imagine that the target might make concessions before being militarily defeated, if the coercer's actions cause the target to make concessions, coercion has succeeded. For instance, whereas the Allies in World War II had no expectati