5), Y 483-556.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 27 --- Explaining Military Coercion Attackers can sometimes precipitate revolution in target states, but only by smashing the state's army. Successful revolution depends on the disinte­ gration of rank-and-file military support for the government. The supreme solvent of military forces is large-scale battlefield defeat. As large numbers of disgruntled soldiers (and deserters) return home, they may feel highly motivated to take revenge for their sufferings on the government and so may form the nucleus of revolutionary forces, making collective action pos­ sible for political opposition groups. Both the Russian Revolution in 1917 and the German Revolution in 1918 occurred when significant parts of their militaries mutinied shortly after battlefield disasters that demonstrated that the war was lost. As early as 1916 there were 1.5 million deserters from the Russian army. The Brusilov offensive, Russia's largest offensive of the war, ended in disaster on 20 September with over a million casualties. By February 1917, Russ­ ian cities were swarming with deserters who were only too willing to join, rather than oppose, a revolution. Moreover, the other pillar of the tsarist system-the bureaucracy-was disintegrating. Thus, when the popular revolts started, there were no organized social forces strong enough to support the regime. In Germany by the summer of 1918 the Al­ lies had defeated the last major German offensive and achieved a succes­ sion of breakthroughs, clearly indicating that Germany had lost the capacity to hold its front. When in October 1918 the Kiel sailors were or­ dered to put to sea for a grand-scale raid on England which could not conceivably alter the course of the war, they refused to sail. This mutiny spread like a windblown fire throughout Germany, led to the formation of local councils, and in early November caused the Kaiser to abdicate and the October Government to resign in favor of a government