le difference to the coercive effectiveness of any of these strategies. Consider punishment. Strategic bombing advocates claim that PGM­ equipped aircraft can suddenly and simultaneously knock out the all the critical nodes of a national economy. Once these are destroyed, civilian liv­ ing conditions will rapidly become intolerable, forcing the government to make peace. According to John Warden, "The number of key production targets in even a large state is reasonably small and all of the targets in key industries such as power production and petroleum refining are fragile./I He believes that "the growth in cities around the world, and the necessity for electricity and petroleum products to keep a city functioning have made these two commodities essential for most states./I Therefore, he says, "Un­ less the stakes in the war are very high, most states will make desired con­ cessions when their power generation system is put under sufficient pressure or actually destroyed./l9 Moreover, advocates believe that eco­ nomic research can further multiply the impact of strategic attack. Since World War II, they say, nuclear weapons have made serious study of eco­ nomic vulnerabilities seem irrelevant. We simply have not studied how modem economies and specific industries are constructed, but if we did, we would find that every industry has just a few critical nodes whose loss would effectively destroy the whole industry. 8 Two additional arguments are not PGM dependent. Some contend that future crises will occur unpredictably, with little warning and no time to deploy ground and tactical air forces to the conflict region. This argument supports the use of extremely long-range aircraft such as the B-2. Christopher J. Bowie, The New Calculus: Analyzing Airpower's Changing Role in Joint Theater Campaigns (Santa Monica: Rand, 1993). However, no one has shown that the large, slow-flying B-2 can survive the difficult-to-predict air defenses accompanying enemy ground forces. Other