f prepar足 ing for military victory. Why Success Comes Late Outstanding successes in which the coercer achieves objectives while paying only a small fraction of the battlefield costs are virtually unknown. Although the United States successfully compelled the Japanese in 1945, the Chinese in 1953, the North Vietnamese in 1972, and Iraq in 1991 to change their behavior, it achieved only minor gains from coercion in all these cases. At most, coercion saved the United States the costs of a final round of mili足 tary action. In fact, coercion usually takes longer than the logic of either punishment or denial alone would suggest, partly because governments tend to hold out longer than societies and partly because states evaluate costs and military performance poorly. Even when the costs of further resistance clearly outweigh any attainable benefits, governments tend to hold out longer than the society wants be足 cause there are domestic costs to admitting defeat. Once a nation is deeply involved in an international dispute, any concessions are likely to result in the fall of the government that demanded sacrifices in pursuit of national goals. Appeasing the enemy allows domestic political rivals to charge the ruling regime with incompetence, betrayal, or both. Even worse, the enemy might demand removal of the existing regime or even institute war crimes trials. The possibilities of domestic political change determine how strongly the government will resist. Incentives to resist are weaker when regime change involves replacing individuals rather than the destruction of the ruling class and allied social institutions; so the likelihood of concessions is higher when replacement of the target state's ruling elite can be accomplished by evolu足 tionary rather than revolutionary change. Regime members have less reason to resist if their main social values are not under threat. More important, when sacrificing the current individual leaders is the only real domestic cost to concess