would be exerted."20 The third lecture, "New York Industrial Area," translates these ideas into actual targeting plans against New York City as "a typical great city." Three target systems are identified. Attacking aqueducts would make the distrib­ ution of water impossible, undermining sanitation, causing thirst, and rais­ ing the threat of fire, with the result that "this method of attack on the city could force its almost complete evacuation." Striking railroad bridges would make the distribution of foodstuffs equally difficult: "Feeding this great metropolitan area depends upon the continuance of uninterrupted rail communications into the area. With any interruption, shortages in various items would become apparent almost immediately .... the area would be­ come untenable and the population could have to be evacuated." Bombing electric power stations would cut water distribution in half by disabling pumping stations, would cause refrigerated food to spoil, and would leave households without power.21 Although the official Air Force history of the period claims that the ACTS strategy aimed to destroy an enemy's "military power," these lec­ tures hardly mentioned the effects of bombing on the capacity to produce military goods or to operate forces on the battlefield. Instead, the argu­ ment was that bombing can destroy a nation's economy and cause so much discomfort among civilians that they will demand political acqui­ escence regardless of any military effects.22 ACTS thinking is remarkably similar to ideas developed in the interwar period by the Russian turned American air theorist Alexander P. de Sever­ sky. Rather than depend on air power's ability to sow panic throughout the population, Seversky believed in breaking civilian will "by destroying ef­ fectively the essentials of their lives-the supply of food, shelter, light, water, sanitation, and the rest. ... Bombardment from on high must fit strictly to the pattern of aerial blockade, systematically wrecking