but produces only minor successes, we must conclude that it is not worth pursuing in cases where coercers are not willing to fight almost all the way to victory. Accordingly, the criteria for failure are simple. Coercion fails when the co­ ercer stops its coercive military actions prior to concessions by the target, when the coercer's attacks continue but do not produce compliance by the target, or when the coercer imposes its demands only after complete defeat of the target. The last is crucial: if a coercive attempt is made but the war ends only when one side is decisively defeated, then coercion has failed, even if the coercer wins the war. As this book shows, coercion by punishment rarely works. When coer­ cion does work, it is by denial. Denial does not always work, either, of course, and sometimes states have no choice but to inflict a decisive defeat. A DENIAL THEORY OF MILITARY COERCION A theory that predicts when military coercion will succeed and when it will fail must focus on the target state's decision-making process, which, in turn, is affected by the relationship between the coercer's military strategies and the target state's vulnerabilities. The Logic of Coercion The problem in coercion is to persuade the target state that acceding to the coercer's demands will be better than resisting them. Whether the state seeks to make gains or avoid losses is irrelevant for the purpose of explain­ ing the logic of coercion. Success or failure is decided by the target state's  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 16 --- Bombing to Win decision calculus with regard to costs and benefits (that is, the state's value for its existing position compared to its [lower] value for its position if it makes the demanded concessions). When the benefits that would be lost by concessions and the probability of attaining these benefits by continued re­ sistance are exceeded by the costs of resistance and the probability of suf­ fering these costs, the target concedes. The logi