than passively re­ sist government orders; they must wrest possession of important instruments of national control, such as communication, transportation, and administra­ tive centers. Opposition groups are at a great disadvantage in any contest of force, however, since they usually lack organization, training, and heavy weapons. Quite small contingents of well-armed forces loyal to the regime can disperse, decapitate, and deter most mass movements against the gov­ ernment or collective civil disobedience. In major disputes capabilities for re­ pression grow, both because governments are likely to mobilize significant additional forces and because repression of dissent is likely to be supported by nationalist groups. Unless the society is so badly divided by domestic cleavages before the dispute that the government lacks authority, opponents criticizing government policy labor under a legitimacy disadvantage, and if necessary, dissent can be forcibly repressed. As a result, it is unlikely that ei­ ther government policy or the regime itself can be changed by popular pres­ sure. In short, punishment does not empower opposition groups?S 22 USSBS, Effects on German Morale 1: 13; USSBS, Effects on Japanese Morale 1: 38, 41. 23 Irving L. Janis, Air War and Emotional Stress: Psychological Studies of Bombing and Civilian Defense (Santa Monica, Calif.: Rand Corporation, 1951), pp. 126-52. 24 Dower, War without Mercy, pp. 36-37; R. H. Thouless, "Psychological Effects of Air Raids," Nature 148 (1941): 183-85; P. E. Vernon, "Psychological Effects of Air Raids," Journal of Abnormal Social Psychology 36 (1941): 457--76. 25 Charles Tilly, "Revolutions and Collective Violence," in Handbook of Political Science, ed. Fred Greenstein and Nelson Polsby (Reading, Mass.: Addison-Wesley, 1975), Y 483-556.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 27 --- Explaining Military Coercion Attackers can sometimes precipitate revolution in target states, but only by smashing the state's army. Success