ok and making it intelligible. Secondly, this view shows us  how Wars must differ in character according to the nature of  the motives and circumstances from which they proceed.’1  It would not be a surprise to learn that Lenin had these  observations in mind when, at the Sixth Congress of the  Communist International, he said:‘The proletariat must carefully analyse the historical and  political class significance of each given war, and must evaluate  with particular care, from the standpoint of world revolution,  the role of the dominating classes of all the countries par­taking in the war.’2Nevertheless, there is a major difference between the two,  for whereas Clausewitz never questioned that morality, as  understood by civilized peoples, was a factor in social life,  Lenin eschewed it, and thereby reduced war to a purely animal  struggle in which no punches were barred. He said:‘We repudiate all morality derived from non-human and  non-class concepts. We say that it is a deception, a fraud in the  interests of the landlords and capitalists. We say that our  morality is entirely subordinated to the interests of the  class struggle of the proletariat [the in-group] . . . We say:  morality is what serves to destroy the old exploiting society  [the out-group] and to unite all toilers around the proletariat,  which is creating a new Communist society. . . . We do not  believe in an eternal morality.’3Therefore, as in tribal warfare, Soviet morality is expediency,  and because ethical considerations are excluded, cunning takes  precedence over valour, and the indirect psychological attack 1  See Supra , chap IV, p. 63.*  Cited by Taracouzio in War and 'Peace in Soviet Diplomacy  (1940),  p. 24.3  Cited by Carew Hunt, op. cit., pp. 79-80. In Trotsky’s opinion: ‘The  highest form of the class struggle is civil war which explodes in mid-air  all moral ties between the hostile classes’ (ibid., p. 81).SOVIET REVOLUTIONARY WARFARE 2 0 3  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Pag