opularity and prestige, had him assassinated. Frunze  argued consistently for the importance of the offense in warfare, and in his theory of the offense, airpower played a primary role. In an article in 1923, Frunze  claimed that air warfare  would decide the outcome of future conflicts. 48 Marshal Mikhail Tukhachevski  succeeded Frunze  as chief of staff of the army in 1925. Recognized as one of the most original and influential military theorists  of the twentieth century, Tukhachevski , like Frunze , believed in the offense—and airpower played a major part in his conception of modern war. Through the 1920s and 1930s, Tukhachevski elucidated his theory of the “deep battle ,” which dominated Soviet doctrine  until World War II . From the genesis of this doctrine, airpower played a primary role by preparing the way for the breakthrough of motorized and mechanized troops and by supporting the advances of mobile forces deep into enemy territory. By the early 1930s, these concepts had reached maturity. For example, the “encounter battle ” played a major role in Tukhachevski ’s theory of the deep battle . In 1932 he stated that the light bomber  and ground-attack air units in support of the field army would prepare the battlefield and then interdict enemy reserves. Air units belonging to the army group would then isolate the breakthrough sector and interdict the enemy’s strategic reserves. Finally, aircraft would drop airborne forces behind enemy lines to seize headquarters and supply bases. 49 Tukhachevski ’s most original contribution to airpower theory was his development of the world’s first airborne forcesCORUM 163  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 191 --- during the early 1930s. 50 As always, Tukhachevski  thought of aviation not as a subordinate or an independent entity but as an integral part of a joint force , with the objective of driving deep into the enemy’s rear with the intention of destroying his armed forces. One finds the most complete exposit