irpower theory at the interwar Air Corps Tactical School  were undoubtedly on the right path when they defined the primary objective of the air arm as strategic. But their thinking on how best to implement that faith was seriously flawed. Their assumptions about bomber defense were unrealistic, as were their assumptions about the accuracy of precision bombing , which largely ignored considerations of weather and the difficulties of navigation and target identification. For all their talk about the “industrial web,” when the war came, their target folders, for the most part, were empty. Given the paucity of funds for experimentation, one could forgive them for many shortfalls if the record showed that they were asking searching questions on these topics, even if they lacked the resources to answer them. But they were not asking such questions, and that is the lesson that should goad future generations of Air Force  officers.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 588  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 612 --- Among all the notable airpower thinkers, Alexander de Seversky  is one of the most interesting. He is the outsider. Although he had a spectacular career as an air officer in the Russian service in World War I , his advocacy for airpower came many years later, when he was a civilian and successful aircraft designer. So he came to his role from a rather different context than did virtually all the other advocates of strategic air. In point of fact, de Seversky  was not really an original thinker and contributor to theory but a publicist, propagandist, and purveyor of the ideas of others. De Seversky  is, however, well worth consideration, for his career sheds a good bit of light on the very shortcomings that this chapter addresses. He was a brilliantly creative engineer and aircraft designer whose P-35  fighter represented a great stride forward in its day; it proved especially noteworthy for its influence on the mighty “Jug”—the P-47  of World War II . But de Seversky ’s br