cally lacked. Third, as discussed below, they warned that war-fighting doctrines  and the weapons systems associated with them would create instability and encourage preemptive attacks . Finally, they insisted that MAD  had no serious credibility problems in the first place. 69 The war-fighting school challenged other premises and arguments of the MAD theorists  in addition to their views on escalation  and the potential controllability of nuclear war . One of these was their attitude towards nuclear superiority . The logic of MAD  implied that a state could achieve a meaningful degree of nuclear superiority  only if it gained the ability to genuinely disarm the enemy by launching a first strike . Short of this, having a larger or more sophisticated nuclear arsenal than a rival didn’t matter, since the enemy retained its assured destruction  capability. Some war fighters responded that while such might be the case in the corridors of RAND  or even the Pentagon , the appearance of nuclear inferiority—the appearance of national weakness—was significant and potentially costly in the international political arena. 70 Another war-fighting response to this question was that smaller increments of nuclear superiority  might indeed matter to deterrence , since an enemy who did not believe in MAD (especially one obsessed with correlations of forces) could well consider them significant. War fighters based this suggestion in large part on a conception of the Soviet Union  as a stateMUELLER 301  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 327 --- less like the United States  than MAD theorists  believed it to be. As the title of one such article described it, the Soviets might think they could fight and win a nuclear war , with their leaders bunkered out of harm’s way and remembering that the USSR  had got along reasonably well in spite of the killing of tens of millions of its citizens by Joseph Stalin  and then by the Great Patriotic War .71 More generally, states might well b