rred in clear weather and that all pilots and bombardiers—and their equipment—performed flawlessly. For example, he stated that a 100-kilogram bomb (220 pounds) would destroy anything within a 50-meter diameter; that is, a target 500 meters in diameter would require 10 tons of explosives. Because aircraft of the day could carry two tons, one needed five aircraft to effect this destruction. Magnanimously, Douhet  doubled that number and claimed that 10 aircraft would “destroy entirely everything that exists upon an area of 500 meters diameter.” 47 Such calculations were simplistic in the extreme. For example, a circle that size has an area of approximately .19 square kilometers. London was about one thousand times as large at that time (about 75 square miles or 196 square kilometers). Thus, even using Douhet ’s hopelessly optimistic figures for bomb effectiveness, one would have needed 10,000 tons of high explosives to level London—or a force of five thousand aircraft. Even had such an air fleet been available, itMEILINGER 21  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 50 --- would not necessarily have produced the results expected by Douhet . One historian has noted that in the first six months of Operation Barbarossa in 1941, the Soviet Union lost 40 percent of its population, 63 percent of its coal, 58 percent of its steel, 68 percent of its pig iron, 60 percent of its aluminum, 38 percent of its grain, 95 percent of its ball bearings, and 99 percent of its rolled, nonferrous metals. 48 If a strategic bombing  force had attained those staggering statistics, they would have been the envy of any air commander . But of course the Soviet Union  not only did not collapse, it went on to defeat Germany . Modern nations had a toughness and resiliency undreamed of by Douhet . Douhet  also proposed that aerochemical  bombs be employed with the high explosives, thinking they would be especially effective against urban targets. Gen Nicholas N. Golovine  noted, however, that b