s theories. A massive strategic bombardment  of Barcelona , ordered by Mussolini , not only failed to break the will of the Catalonians but stiffened their resistance. This may have persuaded Mecozzi  that he was on the right track in downplaying Douhet ’s ideas, but from the vantage point of the present it is of particular interest, for it was a lesson that seems to haveTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 584  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 608 --- had no impact whatever on the British belief that strategic bombing  would result in the collapse of civilian morale . This British failure to derive much benefit from the air operations  of the Spanish Civil War , a neglect roughly paralleled by the United States , raises questions about the character and effectiveness of the attaché and observer systems then in place—not to mention the whole question of military intelligence . Soviet influence on US airpower theory in the interwar years was virtually nonexistent. This is scarcely surprising, given the language barrier, the long delay in establishing formal diplomatic recognition, and the country’s general remoteness. Because of the backwardness of Soviet industry, one doubts whether the USSR  could have fielded an effective strategic bomber  force, even if Stalin ’s paranoia had not liquidated such promising theorists  of strategic air war  as Mikhail Tukhachevsky  and A. N. Lapchinsky . Of all the European powers, Germany  was in the best position to perfect airpower theory. Even though denied an air force by the terms of the Versailles Treaty , the country had already established a firm tradition on which to mount an independent air arm. During World War I , it acquired a centralized air command and a separate air general staff. During the Weimar years, the Germans kept these alive with a shadow staff and their curious eight-year expatriate operation in Russia . With the Luftwaffe ’s strong tradition of objective after-action reporting and thorough analysis of foreign ai