k enemy national resistance by intensive air bombardment of the vital points in the economic and industrial systems.” More specifically, the targets  designated for these bombing units were military objectives that required precise application of force: the “seat of government,” airfields, munitions factories, docks, arms depots, chemical industries, and power stations. 55 One of Trenchard ’s bright young protégés who later attained high rank was Jack Slessor , also one of the more articulate and thoughtful airpower theorists . Unlike Douhet , Trenchard , and Billy Mitchell , who had begun their careers as army officers, Slessor  started off as a flyer in 1915. One might wish to speculate on how the lack of army experience during his formative military years—and the backlash it seemed to incur in many airmen—affected his outlook on airpower. During the war, Slessor  flew air defense in England , while also seeing combat in the Middle East  (where he was wounded) and in France . Between 1931 and 1934, he was an instructor at the Army Staff College at Camberley. His seminal work, Air Power and Armies , is a collection of his lectures there, edited and compiled a few years later while he was stationed in India . In assessing this book, one must remember, first, his audience at Camberley and, second, his admonitions—repeated throughout—that he is writing about a war in which the British army  has already committed itself to a land campaign . Slessor  acknowledged that a primary function of airpower is strategic bombing , but he intended to discuss how airpower could complement surface operations . Indeed, he chastened his readers that “no attitude could be more vain or irritating in its effects than to claim that the next great war—if  and when it comes—will be decided in the air, and in the air alone.” 56 Readers of Air Power and Armies  are struck by the fact that Slessor  bases his arguments not only on logic—the method employed by most air theorists —but also on his