inquiry were frequently hostile towards the idea of independent airpower . Of the 14 interwar groups that studied the proper employment of airpower prior to 1934, Perera  claimed that only one—the Lampert Board  of 1924–25—recommended the creation of an independent air force  within a Department of National Defense .111 But was Perera  right? Was there malfeasance or obstructionism afoot? Were the boards and commissions truly hostile, or did the Air Corps  fail to control the debate properly? Did it let indispensabilists becloud the issue of independence by introducing so many details about the needs of the Army  and Navy  for auxiliary aviation  that no one realized that these needs did not represent real defense in the air?112 If one analyzes the findings of individual boards or commissions, they appear typically hostile to the Air Service /Air Corps . However, imbedded within a majority of these findings is a smattering of proseparatist recommendations that, when added together over time, slowly but inexorably increased the autonomy of the Air Corps .113 The seminal Menoher Board , established by Secretary of War Newton Baker , is a case in point. Its report, dated 27 October 1919, was the first to argue that independent airpower  could not win a war by itself and that unfettered air operations  violated the principle of unity of command . On the other hand, the report was also the first to stress that the Air Service  was an essential Army  combat branch equal in importance to the infantry, cavalry, and artillery.  114THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 208  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 235 --- At roughly the same time, General Pershing  convened the Dickman Board  in Paris on 19 April 1919. The board, which included Benny Foulois  as its president, agreed with the Army that the primary function of military aviation was observation. However, it further argued that most  of the Air Service  should serve with ground units at the army, corps, and division levels. The