47. Warden, interview, 17 February 1994. 48. Ibid. 49. Col John A. Warden III, “Air Theory for the Twenty-first Century” (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air Command and Staff College, January 1994), 14–19. Interestingly, both Billy Mitchell and the Air Corps Tactical School drew similar lessons from their examination of World War I; these lessons subsequently affected their visions of future war and airpower. 50. Although the depiction of war as an extension of politics is widely accepted in both civilian and military circles, two prominent military historians have recently cast doubt on this proposition in their latest publications. See Martin van Creveld, The Transformation of War  (New York: Free Press, 1991); and John Keegan, A History of Warfare  (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1993). If, as they claim, war is a sociocultural phenomenon rather than a political one, this has significant implications for Warden’s emphasis on enemy leadership as the critical center of gravity. 51. Col John A. Warden III, “Employing Air Power in the Twenty-first Century,” in The Future of Air Power in the Aftermath of the Gulf War,  ed. Richard H. Shultz Jr. and Robert L. Pfaltzgraff Jr. (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, July 1992), 62, 67.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 394  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 419 --- 52. For additional detail, see Warden, “Air Theory for the Twenty-first Century,” 8–14. 53. Ibid., 3. 54. In certain respects, Warden’s dismissal of destruction strategies resembles Clausewitz’s idea that absolute war (involving pure violence and the total annihilation of the enemy state) was virtually impossible to conduct due to real-world constraints. 55. As mentioned in footnote 41, Major Barlow provides an excellent discussion of the dynamic interactions between what he calls national elements of value. He explains that these NEVs are both interdependent and self-compensating—both critical attributes to consider when one is trying to dismantle the enemy as a system. 56. Elio