old , chief of the Air Corps , had great respect for the models de Seversky  produced, but as war approached in Europe , he needed aircraft companies ready and able to meet the challenges of greatly increased production. The Seversky Corporation  had a part to play in Arnold ’s future but only if it restructured its senior management. 23 In short, Arnold  wanted de Seversky  out. In May 1939, while de Seversky  was out of the country, his  board of directors removed him as president; inMEILINGER 245  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 272 --- October it ousted him entirely and changed the name of the company to Republic .24 De Seversky  was outraged; moreover, he never forgave Arnold  for the role he had played in his removal. 25 For the next several years, de Seversky  blamed Arnold  for every deficiency—real or perceived—that he found in American airpower. In his files he kept a list of statements made by Arnold , each accompanied by unflattering comments. For example, when Arnold  opined that dive-bombers  might prove useful in combat, de Seversky  commented, “Another demonstration of how slow his mind digests the lessons of the war.” Similarly, when Arnold  drew comparisons between different types of aircraft, de Seversky  grumbled that “these excerpts show how his mind rambles and how reckless his statements are.” 26 In truth, de Seversky ’s removal from business had positive results: Republic  reorganized to become one of the top aviation companies of the next three decades. The P-47 Thunderbolt , the descendant of the major’s P-35 , proved vital to American air success in the war. Based on de Seversky ’s track record up to the time of his removal, Republic  probably would not have responded so effectively to the challenge of war under his guidance. In addition, sudden unemployment left him time for other pursuits. Specifically, he used his considerable charm and communication skills to write and talk about his favorite topic: airpower. From this point