lm Access Access to the realm (operations) Access to the realm (maintenance/support) Realm EnvironmentComposition of the realm Size of the realm Position of the realm Realm-Afforded CapabilityAutonomy Maneuver Flexibility Precision Firepower StealthSurveillance and reconnaissance Duration Range Speed of responseTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 564  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 588 --- contribute significantly to the development of the theory and doctrine of space power, but space power  clearly requires fundamental, bottom-up, theoretical and doctrinal development. The most conducive environment for such development remains a separate space corps  or service. Before completely dismissing the aerospace power conjecture, one might articulate a consistent argument that favors it: the merging of airpower and space power  as aerospace power is based upon their functional equivalence (employing military power from the third dimension). No distinct boundary  exists between the two, and they both afford the same elevated perspective of the battlefield. Technology will eventually overcome the significant environmental distinctions between the air and space media. The technological pursuit of space planes  provides evidence that once technology  overcomes the space medium, military function will blur any environmental distinction. This argument is compelling and has its merits. The counterargument, however, is at least as compelling: the merging of land  and sea power  as “surface power” is based upon their functional equivalence (employing military power from the two-dimensional surface). The boundary between the two is not so distinct, and they both afford the same surface perspective of the battlefield. Environmental distinctions between land and sea media are significant, but technology has overcome them. So why is there no surface power following? The answer is that five hundred years of Western experience have demonstrated that the argument, though consistent, is wrong