tter of physical operations allowed by the composition of the air realm: aerodynamics and the two fundamental forces afforded by the air medium—drag and lift. In space, there is no cushion of air (i.e., drag) upon which to float and maneuver; further, there is no lift to gain altitude. 46 For example, the terminal velocity of a free-fall parachuter is between 100 and 120 MPH. By contrast, no terminal velocity exists in space. If a person were to free-fall in the Earth’s gravitational field 47 without the benefit of an air cushion, his or her velocity after traversing 20,000 feet in 35 seconds would amount to an astonishing 770 MPH.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 552  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 576 --- One cannot overstate the benefit of lift within the atmosphere.48 Mankind has known of rockets for thousands of years yet forsook the question of flight until the discovery of lift. Aircraft require propulsion for manned flight, but the real test of flight rests with the ability to manipulate that propulsion in a manner that optimizes lift. To illustrate the benefits of lift, one should consider a situation that uses no lift. Fuel consumption rates of a British Aerospace Sea Harrier on a typical combat air patrol (CAP)  mission allow a 90-minute flight. The same aircraft can stay airborne in a fixed location (no lift, thrust only) for approximately 23 minutes. 49 Lift quadruples the flight time and adds the benefit of maneuver. Had the same Harrier  required thrust capability (without lift) to maneuver in a CAP  role at standard aircraft speeds, its flight time would amount to just a few minutes. Obviously, the lift/glide factor in our ability to man the skies remains very significant—a factor not available in space. Space maneuver requires one of two modes: free fall in orbit or thrust-powered maneuver. Both modes differ drastically from maneuvering through the air. From the reference frame of the satellite , orbits are simply the right combination of lateral velo