mately 11,000 aircraft, seventy-eight hundred of which were trainers; and it had 10,000 trained pilots. 7 However, with the end of hostilities this sizable force disappeared almost overnight. AEF commanders had expected to mount one final offensive in 1919, but Germany ’s “premature” collapse led to a rapid and bruising demobilization instead. 8 When the US Congress promptly rescinded $485 million in uncommitted aviation funds, the Air Service  had no choice other than immediately stop its ambitious expansion program. It withdrew 91.5 percent of its outstanding manufacturing orders by mid-1919. During the following year, it sold, transferred, or disposed of an additional $173.3 million worth of equipment, and it discharged all but 1,168 officers and 8,428 enlisted men from its rolls. 9 (The latter number represented 5 percent of the Air Service ’s peak wartime strength.) Not surprisingly, senior American airmen like Mason Patrick  and Milling  complained bitterly about the Army ’s frantic rush to demobilize. The rapid drawdown, in their opinion, left the infant Air Service  (and its technological base) in a “chaotic,” “disorganized,” or “tangled state.” The service, Patrick  and Milling  claimed, was unable to conduct postwar tactical training, establish binding policies or needed direction for local commanders, or retrieve equipment scattered throughout the United States .10 Further, the “deplorable” military aviation industry  had shrunk to 15–20 aircraft plants and three engine makers who were limping through the general demobilization by modernizing obsolescent aircraft. (In 1920, for example, the Boeing Company  upgraded 111 De Havilland D.H.4s  into D.H.4Bs .)11 Demobilization, however, was not the only reason why the postwar debate over the fate of American airpower  began unequally. The idea of a debate implies that the Air Service already had a well-reasoned, universal set of principles about the proper use of airpower, particularly in war. In reality, this