nd 1938, German paratroops  greatly enhanced their reputation by successfully seizing objectives behind enemy lines. 89CORUM 173  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 201 --- Because Nazi ideology  placed a very high value upon breaking the enemy’s will  and upon conducting propaganda campaigns , Nazi adherents had considerable affinity for the theories of Douhet . Gen Erich Ludendorff , a World War I  leader and the Nazis’ chief commentator on military affairs, wrote numerous articles on his vision of a future war, which included the morale bombing  of civilian populations. His most explicit description of future air war  came in his books The Coming War  (1931) and The Total War  (1935).90 Nazi ideology , however, had little impact upon German airpower  thinkers of the 1930s. First of all, Ludendorff  was unpopular with the General Staff, and his prestige had fallen after his poor performance in 1918. Second, professional airmen’s understanding of the technological capabilities of airpower ruled out some of the Nazis’ more far-fetched notions. Nazi enthusiasm for modernity, however, and the Luftwaffe ’s characterization of itself as a new National Socialist branch of the military—as opposed to the tradition- bound and noble-dominated army —guaranteed the air force massive funding and support from the government. In reality, career military professionals dominated the Luftwaffe , and the Nazis had minimal ideological  influence upon the Luftwaffe  and its doctrine . From 1936 to 1939, the Luftwaffe  sent several hundred aircraft and 20,000 personnel to Spain  to support Gen Francisco Franco ’s Nationalist armies. 91 Spain  had considerable impact upon the perfection of techniques and tactics of the Luftwaffe . The lessons of Spain , however, did not lead to any fundamental changes in German airpower theory  or doctrine . Methods of close air support  were perfected during the Spanish War , in which close air support  remained a primary mission of the air forc