irpower, protracted revolutionary warfare  was just conventional warfare  writ small.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 330  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 356 --- The Official Response In spite of protracted revolutionary wars  raging throughout Southeast Asia  from the end of World War II  through the decade of the 1950s, in spite of deepening involvement after the election of John F. Kennedy  to the presidency, and in spite of a growing body of literature on the subject, the official response of the Air Force  was both slow and distinctly muted. Air Force basic doctrine  first appeared in 1953 and changed in 1954, 1955, and 1959. Each version seemed to assume that the struggles in Southeast Asia  did not exist and, for the most part, that the Korean War  had not happened. 33 None of them mentioned terms and concepts such as LIC , protracted revolutionary warfare , and guerrilla tactics . Not until the 1955 edition was the broader concept of limited war  even mentioned in basic doctrine . At lower levels of Air Force doctrine , the story remained much the same. For example, the Theater Air Operations doctrine manual published in 1953 did mention “special operations ” but only in terms of inserting agents behind enemy lines, supplying partisans, and delivering propaganda. The version reissued in 1954 made no further elaboration. 34 Although the “official” Air Force  seemed almost mesmerized by strategic nuclear airpower  throughout the 1950s, some people seemed to recognize that the kinds of struggles seen in Southeast Asia  might require different responses. For example, as early as March 1954, the Air Force  vice chief of staff sent a message to Air University , Tactical Air Command (TAC) , and Far East Air Forces (FEAF)  questioning whether or not the Air Force  could adequately respond to the challenge presented by Ho Chi Minh , implying that the Air Force  could fight only a major war.35 The first concrete actions taken in response to the threat of protracted rev