ropriate for counterinsurgencies : “Tactical air doctrine  and the attending force structure are designed for conventional wars  against conventional enemies. In most low-intensity conflict  situations, control of the air is established by default, while isolation of the battlefield, where there are few and fleeting fixed battles, is a non sequitur.” 76 Olson  went on to claim that airpower is most useful in supporting roles such as reconnaissance , troop transport, resupply, and presence.77 John Green  agrees that these noncombat roles are central to the contribution of airpower but maintains that close air support  and possibly close interdiction  can prove crucial if enemy guerrilla  forces either attack isolated friendly forces or if one can fix them and force them to stand and fight. 78 Drawing on the extensive literature of the RAF  role in the Malayan Emergency , I agreed that the supporting roles of airpower are important—so important that to call them supporting is difficult. The utility of the traditional role of delivering firepower was controversial in Malaya  and has remained so. However, technological advances in deliveringTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 342  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 368 --- aerial firepower may make it much more useful than the RAF found it to be. The key to the effective use of airpower in a counterinsurgent  role, however, remains the total integration of the airpower role in the overall military campaign—and the total integration of the military campaign in the overall politico-military struggle. In many ways, the military portion of the struggle is the least important element of the effort. 79 David Parsons  produced the most innovative and comprehensive theoretical approach but came to many of the same conclusions as the authors previously cited. Using a relatively obscure essay published in 1970 by Nathan Leites  and Charles Wolf  Jr. as a framework, 80 Parsons  produced both a general philosophical approach to counterinsu