ting. Unfortunately, although military intelligence organizations had existed in some form for centuries, the information they gathered was generally of the type needed at the tactical level: the number of enemy troops, their location, the capabilities of their weapons, the location of their supply depots, and so forth. Air war  now required fundamentally different types of intelligence  regarding a country’s industrial and economic structure and potential. Because intelligence agencies did not yet exist that could provide this type of information, Douhet and others were left with vague and simplistic platitudes. Failing to identify and seriously address the vital connection between targeting  and intelligence  was a serious oversight. It took Desert Storm  to furnish the third pillar of this trio: the key to intelligence  in modern war is the ability to assess the results of an air campaign  on a complex system. Given the interdependent and linked nature of modern societies, neutralizing a certain target does not necessarily mean that one achieves a strategic gain or that it was the one intended. In addition, the pace  of air war  has now become so rapid that near-real-time intelligence  has become essential. Moreover, precision weapons  demand precision intelligence : if one can now strike a specific office in a large military headquarters, then one needs to know the correct office. Another example of Douhet ’s exaggeration is his attitude towards the army and navy. Although Douhet  paid lip service to the other arms, he saw little use for them, and his tendency to move from the dominance of airpower to its omnipotence grew. Because he did not expect surface forces  to be decisive, he gave little thought to their future development, organization,  or employment. In the defense department, he envisioned that surface forces  would have degenerated into impotence— merely serving to guard Italy ’s mountain passes and harbors. Douhet ’s thinking therefore became danger