cal and military leaders from the early 1920s on. In 1932 former prime minister Stanley Baldwin  made his glum prediction that the bomber  would always get through. He added his pessimistic assessment that the only way to prevent the destruction of one’s cities was to bomb an enemy’s even more viciously (Trenchard ’s maxim that the best defense is a good offense). In reality, Baldwin  advocated no such thing. In fact, the week following this comment, he proposed at the Geneva Disarmament Conference  the abolition of aerial bombardment. Obviously, he made this offer as much for strategic reasons as for humanitarian: because of the unusual vulnerability of Britain  to air attack , it had more to gain from such a prohibition. 42 The point to note, however, is that British political and military leaders had little incentive to push for a city-busting air strategy ; in fact, they advocated precisely the opposite. The other method of articulating and then disseminating airpower concepts throughout the RAF  involved the Staff College at Andover. Soon after the war, Trenchard  realized that in a fundamental sense the RAF  would stand or fall, based on how well it was run. As a separate service, it quickly had to develop the capability of organizing and administering its own affairs. As a consequence, he established three major schools in the first three years of peace: a technical school at Halton to train “aircraftmen” in specific mechanical skills; a cadet college at Cranwell, similar to Sandhurst, for educatingMEILINGER 57  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 86 --- young officers; and a staff college at Andover, like the army’s at Camberley, to teach midcareer officers staff skills as well as give them a higher understanding of war. Trenchard  referred to Andover, opened in 1922, as “the cradle of our brain.” 43 At the Staff College, a small faculty (originally five officers, all of whom later attained flag rank) presented lectures each morning, which the student