n the ground. Many airmen believe passionately that airpower is a liberating force that can produce tactical, operational, and strategic results quite independently of land formations. Features of terrain are at most minor nuisances that one must take into account when planning flight routes and final approaches. Weather, on the other hand, is a very significant consideration that canWINTON 401  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 426 --- severely degrade and, under certain conditions, prevent air operations . Although airmen’s exposure to danger is intermittent, they rely absolutely on the proper functioning of their equipment for survival in the hostile and unforgiving environment in which they fight. Furthermore, most airmen remain completely convinced that the sine qua non of effective operations is the neutralization or destruction of the enemy’s air force and air defenses . This accomplished, all else can follow. Although airmen largely depend upon soldiers to keep enemy ground forces  at bay, this dependence is nowhere nearly as strong as soldiers’ dependence upon them. The asymmetry of this dependence lies at the root of many of the tensions that exist between the Army  and the Air Force regarding air-ground operations . Forming the Partnership, 1973–79 The Vietnam  experience significantly affected both the Army and the Air Force , but in noticeably different ways. The Army was virtually shattered. The proud, confident days when troops had helicoptered into the Ia Drang Valley  and put to flight multiple North Vietnamese Army (NVA)  regiments were a faded and distant memory by 1973. Instead, at the forefront of the Army ’s consciousness one found (1) a series of battles that were, at best, tactical stalemates and (2) a deep malaise brought about by an unpopular war, an inequitable draft system, a progressive unraveling of small-unit discipline, and a severe questioning of the competence and integrity of its senior leaders. Although some voices placed