tate University and the US Army’s Command and General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. He has served as a logistics officer in Turkey and Germany, as an analyst in the Checkmate Division on the Air Staff in the Pentagon, and as a maintenance squadron commander. He is currently assigned to the Doctrine Division in the Joint Warfighting Center at Fort Monroe, Virginia. Dr. I. B. Holley Jr.  was one of the founding fathers of SAAS, recognizing early on the importance of airpower education within the Air Force. The dean of American military airpower historians, he is professor emeritus at Duke University and has also taught at West Point and National Defense University. During his prestigious academic career, he has published three books, including the seminal Ideas and Weapons: Exploitation of the Aerial Weapon by the United States during World War I  (Yale University Press, 1953—now in its third edition) and dozens of articles on military and airpower history, theory, and doctrine. After receiving his PhD from Yale University, he enjoyed a long and distinguished career in the Air Force Reserve, retiring in 1981 as a major general. Col Maris “Buster” McCrabb  was professor of economic warfare at SAAS from 1994 to 1996. After completing his undergraduate work at Bowling Green State University, he received an MS and MPA from Troy State University and then completed his DPA at the University of Alabama. A fighter pilot and Fighter Weapons School graduate, he has flown F-4s and F-16s in the Philippines, Germany, and Korea, as well as 603  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 626 --- in combat during the Persian Gulf War. He is one of the Air Force’s leading experts on air campaign planning, has published extensively on the subject, and is currently chief of the Command and Control Integration Division at Headquarters Air Combat Command, Langley AFB, Virginia. Col Phillip S. Meilinger  was the dean of SAAS from 1992 to 1996. He graduated from the Air Force A