r to meet particular situational needs. In the event of a crisis, most of the space power  available is already present; satellite strike and reconnaissance capabilities are not reconfigurable without high-cost space lift  and/or on-orbit maneuver. 3. The absence  of autonomy  (unmanned) requires spacecraft to rely on data-linked decisions regarding available options. The time delay or data-link vulnerabilities could limit options. The flexibility that characterizes military power is not merely a summation of maneuver, access, and autonomy characteristics. Maneuverable, autonomous systems with easy realm access could conceivably lack flexibility. The co mbi- nation of extreme limitations on autonomy, maneuver, and access  characteristics of space power  severely constrains flexibility. Flexibility is a characteristic  advantage of airpower. Precision Automated terminal guidance and control are equally applicable from the air and space. Remote, data-linked terminal guidance provides its own inherent limitations, however. Because data-link vulnerability is always an issue, as are weather restrictions, the Air Force  continues to retain manned aircraft with ballistic bombing  capability. Typically, in the absence of terminal guidance, the precision of ballistic weapons  is directly related to release range—and release range from terrestrial targets is less for air assets as compared to the further-removed space assets. The proximity of the air realm provides precision as a characteristic  advantage of airpower. Speed of Response If one removes the three previously considered limitations of space power  (maneuver, flexibility, and precision) from the calculation, 62 space-based response time can become almostTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 560  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 584 --- instantaneous. Airpower response time can occur as quickly as putting F-117s  on target anywhere in the world within 24 hours of notification; however, providing sustained airpower (limitati