n of many groups of knowledge as they may apply to a variety of situations. •wisdom  - coordinated understanding in the context of a lifetime of experience. •vision - use of wisdom to construct a path to the future. The data fusion myth  blindly assumes the potential of complete automation at all levels, from data acquisition through insightful decision making  (e.g., data - information - knowledge - understanding - wisdom [“genius”] - vision). Automation of these functions diminishes as the process proceeds from data to vision. Wisdom and vision simply are not programmable. Computers do not make decisions; they can only follow the algorithms—programmed paths that lead to decisions. The data fusion accomplished by any computer will be only as good as the decision paths previously coded into it by the programmer, who is removed in time, space, and responsibility from the very decision being made (i.e., he or she has no particular situational awareness). One cannot synthesize massive amounts of data in a variety of forms, fromDEBLOIS 557  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 581 --- a variety of platforms, in order to tailor the results for a particular application, by massive computation alone. Advances in computing power have facilitated the potential for processing, but computing power does not equate to processing. Inflated expectations of data fusion provide more of a problem for space power  simply because experience has tempered airpower expectations. In spite of this weakness, one must not understate the impact of space surveillance  and reconnaissance  capabilities— highlighted by the Gulf War . A host of US and foreign communications, navigation, surveillance , early warning, and meteorological satellites  contributed to the coalition  war effort. 55 In the future, such support will proliferate, 56 one-meter resolution will become available commercially by 1997, 57 and one can only imagine the real limit of resolution capability. Very fine resolution a