pointed out, involved unescorted HAPDB  against an enemy nation’s vital centers . Thanks to the initial efforts of Olds , Walker , and Wilson , the concept first appeared in 1932 and went as follows: 1. Modern great powers rely on major industrial and economic systems for production of weapons and supplies for their armed forces, and for manufacture of products and provision of services to sustain life in a highly industrialized society. Disruption or paralysis  of these systems undermines both the enemy’s capability  and will to fight . 2. Such major systems contain critical points whose destruction will break down these systems, and bombs can be delivered with adequate accuracy to do this. 3. Massed air strike forces can penetrate air defenses  without unacceptable losses and destroy selected targets. 4. Proper selection of vital targets in the industrial/economic/social structure of a modern industrialized nation, and their subsequent destruction by air attack , can lead to fatal weakening of an industrialized enemy nation and to victory through air power.FABER 217  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 244 --- 5. If enemy resistance still persists after successful paralysis  of selected target systems, it may be necessary as a last resort to apply direct force upon the sources of enemy national will  by attacking cities. In this event, it is preferable to render the cities untenable rather than indiscriminately to destroy structures and people. (Emphasis in original) 135 Further, why did Walker , George , Wilson , and others  prefer unescorted, high-altitude attacks? Because they believed that modern bombers  could operate beyond the reach of defending fighters and antiaircraft artillery (AAA)  fire. Why did they emphasize precision? Among other reasons, because government parsimony demanded that they get the biggest “bang for the buck” from the few aircraft they had. And why did they prefer daylight operations? Because then-current navigation aids and bomb