tional and tactical situation which advanced U.S. technologies provide our forces” (page 57). In addition, the National Defense University at Fort Lesley J. McNair, Washington, D.C., opened a School of Information Warfare and Strategy in August 1994. Its 10-month-long curriculum focuses on advances in information technology and the ways these affect the definition of national security needs and the development of military strategy. 86. John Arquilla and David Ronfeldt, Cyberwar Is Coming,  RAND Report P-7791 (Santa Monica, Calif.: RAND, 1992), 6. 87. This assertion does not imply that all future wars will be high-tech, hyperspeed infowars. I agree with Alvin and Heidi Toffler’s view that the advent of information warfare does not eliminate other forms of conflict. Generally speaking, however, advances in information technology will increase the pace of twenty-first-century warfare, albeit to varying degrees based on the technological capabilities of the opposing sides. 88. Maj James L. Rodgers, “Future Warfare and the Space Campaign,” Air Campaign Course Research Projects (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air Command and Staff College, 1993–1994), 116.FADOK 397  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 422 --- 89. “The Information Revolution reflects the advance of computerized information and communications technologies and related innovations in organization and management theory. Sea-changes are occurring in how information is collected, stored, processed, communicated and presented, and in how organizations are designed to take advantage of increased information.” Arquilla and Ronfeldt, 2. 90. John Naisbitt, Megatrends: Ten New Directions Transforming Our Lives  (New York: Warner Books, 1982), 1–2. 91. Ibid., 204. 92. “Distributed problem solving is the solution to problems through the use of multiple cooperative (usually physically separated) problem solvers. Truly distributed problem solving must be contrasted with centralized problem solving with remote execution. In tru