sons. The war had demonstrated a surprising human resiliency, and prewar predictions of urban populations quickly panicking and breaking under air attack  had proven wrong. De Seversky  therefore emphasized the importance of industrial targets . In truth, de Seversky  was merely echoing American Air Corps  doctrine  that had been in place for at least a decade prior to the war. Unfortunately, like most air theorists , he did not specify which part of the enemy’s industry one should target . Debates then raged among Allied air planners  over the proper objectives for attack—candidates included oil, electricity, chemicals, rubber, and ball bearings. De Seversky  did not contribute to this debate, opting instead for an air campaign  to obliterate all aspects of an industrial infrastructure. Given the size and complexity of a modern state’s industrial base, combined with the limited destructive capacity and accuracy of contemporary bombs, this approach was highly simplistic and unsophisticated. De Seversky , like so many air thinkers, overestimated the physical damage of bombing . The critical response to Victory through Air Power  was divided. Predictably, soldiers and sailors found it bothMEILINGER 255  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 282 --- inaccurate and dangerous, questioning de Seversky ’s claims regarding the effectiveness of airpower  in the war and totally rejecting his prophecies of air dominance. One naval advocate sniffed that although the book “purports to be a serious study” it was actually “a slipshod affair” with a “Jules Verne” quality about it. 50 A Navy  public relations official candidly admitted, however, that the book posed a “special threat” because it “reaches the popular mind, and the popular mind reacts on Congressmen, and the first thing you know you are going to have Congress telling you and your colleagues in the Navy  that you are not abreast of modern trends of thought in the matter of how to make war.” 51 Airmen also had conce