dvocates of land-based aviation  openly doubted that naval commanders would risk their carriers  in raids against land objectives, especially in the name of “defensive” operations. Commanders would have to make a difficult choice between operating range and vulnerability to land- based airpower  and thus limit the carriers ’ performance in either case. Finally, airmen believed that naval operations  would be further impaired by international agreements, the growing scope (and importance) of coalition warfare , the division of total naval forces  into unreinforceable halves (the Pacific  and Atlantic fleets  tenuously connected by the vulnerable Panama Canal ), and the inability of naval forces  to patrol and reach all access points in a timely manner. 58 The Navy  fought mightily against the fear mongering of the Air Corps , and from the standpoint of War Department  (i.e., Joint Board ) directives, it largely succeeded. Throughout the interwar years, the board’s directives remained helpfully vague when dealing with areas of overlapping responsibility. But the Navy  was fighting against an eroding tide. 59 Air-minded civilian leaders often supported the Air Service ’s/Air Corps ’s intrusion on Navy  prerogatives. Calvin Coolidge , for example, decided relatively early in the roles and missions  debate that “our national defense  must be supplemented, if not dominated, by aviation.” 60 In turn, Lt Gen Robert Lee Bullard , president of the National Security League  and former commander of AEF ’s Second Army , argued that the Navy  was rapidly becoming a mere “escort” to land-based aviation , which would sweep over land and sea with impunity. 61 Woven into such sentiments was the assumption that the US Navy  would be “inadequate and impotent” in keeping our sea lanes open and in denying them to potential enemies. As a result, enemy states or coalitions could place air bases and carrier-based aviation  close enough to America ’s borders to destroy the great industrial t