ction between bombings. Attacks were to be carried out at a prescribed altitude, above the probable volume of antiaircraft fire if the vessel actually had been manned and defended. Mitchell ignored these terms, especially the altitude stipulations, and dropped his bombs from an unrealistically low level to ensure fatal hits. He got what he wanted—those wonderful photographs of the  Ostfriesland , keel up and about to plunge to the bottom. In short, were Mitchell ’s claims to have replaced the Navy mere illusions  (ideas that could not survive systematic preparation for authentication) rather than sound theories? Should we knock him off his pedestal with the righteous indignation of iconoclasts? Perhaps so on the facts of the matter. But there’s another perspective. Like Douhet , Mitchell was more visionary  than theorist . He was a careless andTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 582  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 606 --- unsystematic thinker, but he inspired men with his vision . Hap Arnold , Carl Spaatz , and Ira Eaker —to name only the obvious individuals—were among his votaries, carrying the torch for strategic airpower  and an independent air force through the difficult interwar years. Sometimes visions and even myths are more powerful than the most meticulously and rationally supported theories. Mitchell  brought trouble on himself needlessly. In calling for a single air arm that would include the air components of the Navy , he aroused the implacable opposition of the sailors. Had he given even superficial thought to British experience—the failure that followed the absorption of naval air assets by the RAF —he could have avoided the opposition on the part of the Navy  that has persisted in some quarters even to the present. Ironically, Mitchell  may have been the unwitting agent in creating the carrier  Navy . Although all battleship admirals were by no means as reactionary and opposed to aviation as sometimes pictured, the Ostfriesland  sinking clearly played di