velopment under one responsible and directing head.” As for its wartime usage, Patrick  asserted that “we should gather our air forces together under one air commander  and strike at the strategic points ofCLODFELTER 107  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 136 --- our enemy—cripple him even before our ground forces  come into contact.”96 Patrick ’s successors as chief of the Air Corps —James E. Fechet , Benny Foulois , Oscar Westover , and Hap Arnold —were equally committed to Mitchell ’s goal of an independent air force  and shared his faith that airpower could win wars (although Foulois  had no love lost for Mitchell personally). Maj Gen Frank Andrews , who commanded the GHQ Air Force  from 1935–39, was an airpower disciple who relentlessly spouted Mitchellese to both the War Department and the public and, like Mitchell , was banished to Fort Sam Houston . Aside from Andrews  and the outspoken Foulois , however, air leaders chose to restrain their advocacy. Most worked to improve relations with the War Department  while securing high-visibility peacetime missions that stressed airpower’s ability to defend the nation. Although Mitchell  the prophet remained uppermost in their minds, so too did Mitchell  the martyr. Mitchell ’s prophecy not only endured among air leaders but also was the fundamental underpinning of the Air Corps Tactical School —the focal point of American airpower study during the interwar years. Mitchell  had been instrumental in founding the school, and his bombing manual served as a textbook. 97 Many of the school’s officer-instructors were his protégés. Sherman , Dargue , George , Olds , and Walker —the latter two had served as Mitchell ’s aides—filled key positions on the faculty, and all promoted Mitchell ’s vision of independent airpower founded on the bomber . Mitchell ’s progressive vision of airpower applied against an enemy’s war-making capability and will to resist will likely endure among American airmen. Perhaps Mitchell , had