han those produced by air resources used in more traditional OAS  roles. 110 Undoubtedly, NATO air doctrine  has undergone tremendous changes over the past several years, matching the rapidly changing geostrategic environment. Former foes are now friends; former off-limits operations—out-of-area missions— now occupy NATO ’s day-to-day concerns; we have witnessed an explosion in the technology  of war; and we have learned much from the lessons of the Gulf War . What other challengesMCCRABB 471  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 495 --- may lay on the horizon, and how will they become part of NATO’s air doctrine ? In their study of the process and problems in the development of NATO’s doctrine , Stein , Nolan , and Perry emphasize two critical aspects. First, although national doctrines  often reflect unique national service traditions and capabilities, gaining NATO -wide acceptance for those views can prove difficult. This is especially true of US doctrine if other countries believe it may harbor hidden agendas or may result in expensive modernization schemes. Second, they argue that NATO  has experienced difficulty keeping its doctrine  in tune with rapidly changing developments—both technological and political. 111 NATO  finds itself in such a situation now. The unanswered question is, How will its air doctrine evolve in light of these unprecedented changes? One may gain some insight from the 18th TAWP  held at NATO  headquarters in April 1995. At that meeting, some familiar processes still existed: the degree of participation by the various countries related mainly to the issue at hand. For example, Spain  did not send a delegate at all, while Turkey ’s delegate attended sessions that dealt only with specific ATPs (such as the one dealing with airspace) in which it had a particular interest. On the other hand, in order to facilitate progress, delegates acting as individuals often attempted to clarify issues or offer proposed solutions (especially when two