e case with all air missions. Second, even more than in interdiction  operations, the air  and ground commanders had to coordinate their efforts closely—if possible, their headquarters should be collocated. Because of the proximity of friendly troops, one could not tolerate mistakes. After careful planning, one could use airpower tactically in three different situations: in attack to facilitate a breakthrough; in pursuit to turn victory into rout; and in defense to prevent an enemy breakthrough on the ground. Slessor ’s later career and writings make clear that he was an advocate of strategic airpower . (One arrives at the same conclusion after examining his attitude towards Trenchard , as revealed in Air Power and Armies .) Indeed, several hints dropped throughout his book suggest that he wanted to write about strategic airpower . The fact that his army audience would have none of it, however, compelled him to write a book that assumed a land campaign . Air Power and Armies  stands as perhaps the best treatment of this subject written in English before World War II .MEILINGER 65  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 94 --- The book features several notable aspects: his detailed discussion of air superiority —what it is, how one gains it, and when one needs to maintain it; his emphasis on the need for specialized air intelligence ; and his detailed discussion of an army’s center of gravity —its supply lines. Slessor  argued that one wasted airpower  by using it merely as a tactical weapon when cooperating in a land campaign ; rather, airpower should concentrate on the disruption, destruction, and neutralization of enemy armaments and supplies—interdiction . Given his penetrating examination—despite his fairly convoluted prose—it is most unfortunate that Slessor  did not write a companion volume on strategic air war . (His many writings after World War II  are concerned primarily with nuclear deterrence  and the situation in Europe .) In a sense, Slessor ’s mas