nation-state or a guerrilla organization, as a system of five strategic rings with leadership at the center. 45. Warden uses a biological analogy to draw parallels with the human body. The brain, receiving inputs from the eyes and central nervous system, represents the body’s leadership. Food and oxygen are two organic essentials, while blood vessels, bones, and muscles provide the infrastructure. Cells constitute the body’s population, while specific lymphocytes and leukocytes, along with other white blood cells, provide protection from attack. A cessation in functioning of any part of the body will have a more or less important effect on the rest of the body. Although this analogy is attractive in its simplicity and familiarity, Neustadt and May caution that one must temper reasoning from analogies by considering differences as well as likenesses. See Richard E. Neustadt and Ernest R. May,  Thinking in Time: The Uses of History for Decision-Makers  (New York: Free Press, 1986), 41. 46. The terminology often used by Warden to discuss the leadership ring suggests that, like Boyd, he treats governmental decision making as the process and product of a unitary rational actor—Allison’s model 1 (see Allison). However, he argues that one can describe and target the leadership bull’s-eye in terms of model 1 (rational actor), model 2 (organizational process), or model 3 (governmental politics). In fact, the analysis or breakdown of the center ring into its subsystems will reveal the model 1, 2, and/or 3 dynamics at play. The job of the air strategist is to determine how best to influence leadership decision making, given its particular system dynamics. Col John A. Warden III, commandant, Air Command and Staff College, Maxwell AFB, Ala., interviewed by author, 17 February 1994. 47. Warden, interview, 17 February 1994. 48. Ibid. 49. Col John A. Warden III, “Air Theory for the Twenty-first Century” (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air Command and Staff College, January 1994), 14–19. Intere