ve power. Writing before the advent of radar, he argued that a defender’s inability to know the exact time and location of an attack gave an enormous advantage to the offense, virtually assuring tactical surprise. On the other hand, defense required a huge air fleet because each protected point needed an air contingent at least the size of the attacking enemy. This situation was precisely the opposite of the one on the ground, because it meant that successful air defense  required the preponderance of force, leading Douhet  to term the airplane “the offensive weapon par excellence .”23 Just as Douhet  discounted the possibility of aerial interception, so too did he dismiss ground-based air defenses . Further, he deemed antiaircraft guns wasteful because they seldom hit anything. Douhet  sarcastically conceded that ground fire might down some aircraft, much like muskets shot in the air might occasionally hit a swallow, but it was not aMEILINGER 9  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 38 --- serious deterrent to air attack . People who believed that artillery was an effective counter to the airplane “had confused aircraft with snails.” Douhet  stated flatly, “I am against air defense because it detracts means from the Air Force . . . I am against it because I am absolutely convinced that . . . it cannot achieve its aim.” 24 Thus, in Douhet ’s eyes, the best defense—indeed, the only defense—was a good offense. For the same reason, he eschewed an air reserve . All aircraft were committed; holding forces in reserve exemplified the outdated and defensive thinking of surface commanders. The speed and range of aircraft created their own reserve because they were able to react quickly and engage in different locations long before surface forces could move there. These beliefs regarding the nature of modern war and the inherent characteristics of the airplane led Douhet  to a theory of war based on the dominance of airpower. His most fundamental precept 25 was that an a