ce. To use aircraft against objectives that are within range of ground or naval weapons is to use them in lieu of rather than in support of those weapons. See annex 4, p. 3. 86. “Analytical Study of Joint Action of the Army and the Navy,” 3. 87. Air Corps Board Report 35, 1–2. 88. For a thorough discussion of how FDR came to support airpower as a favored instrument of diplomacy and national defense, see Jeffery S. Underwood, The Wings of Democracy: The Influence of Air Power on the Roosevelt Administration, 1933–1941  (College Station, Tex.: Texas A&M University Press, 1991). 89. The evolution of bomber technology, although outside the purview of this discussion, played a critical role in the Air Corps’s success against the Navy and in transforming a mere theory of airpower into reality. In the 1920s, bombers were cumbersome and lightly armed machines that trundled along at 110 MPH. Their operating ceiling, bomb-carrying capacity, and defensive firepower were also limited. Such aircraft, like the Curtis Condor and Barling bomber, were much too vulnerable to carry out a successful bombing campaign in the face of hostile fighters. By 1932, however, bomber technology suddenly leapt past fighter capabilities. (The change was attributable to innovations in large civilian aircraft, which then positively affected bomber development.) When it appeared in 1931, the Boeing B-9 represented a significant leap in bomber technology, although it was an interim aircraft (only nine saw service). The plane contained preliminary engineering items later found in the B-17, which at this point was entering the advanced design phase. Better yet were the follow-on B-10 and B-12. The Boeing B-10, for example, was an all-metal, midwing monoplane with retractable landing gear. It could go 235 MPH (at least 10 MPH faster than contemporary fighters), climb up to 21,000 feet, and carry five machine guns. Its other novel features included an enclosed cockpit, cowling over the engines, and cantile