5 February 1925, Mitchell Papers, General Correspondence, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. 74. Weeks did not mince his rationale to President Calvin Coolidge. The secretary remarked, “General Mitchell’s course has been so lawless, so contrary to the building up of an efficient organization, so lacking in reasonable team work, so indicative of a personal desire for publicity at the expense of everyone with whom he is associated that his actions render him unfit for a high administrative position such as he now occupies.” See John W. Weeks to Calvin Coolidge, letter, 4 March 1925, Mitchell Papers, General Correspondence, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. 75. “The personnel of these permanent establishments often tend to become uniformed office holders instead of public servants entirely engaged in furthering the betterment of their nation.” See Mitchell,  Winged Defense,  136. 76. Elizabeth Mitchell to William Mitchell, letter, 2 September 1925, Mitchell Papers, General Correspondence, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. One should also note that Mitchell took his wife’s concerns to heart. In his explosive press release of 5 September, he specifically referred to the cartoons in Winged Defense  and publicly apologized to Secretary Weeks for any disrespect they may have implied. The United States v. Colonel William Mitchell,  23. 77. Quoted in Hurley, 101. 78. Quoted in Eugene M. Emme, “The American Dimension,” in Alfred F. Hurley and Robert C. Ehrhart, eds., Air Power and Warfare: Proceedings of the Eighth Military History Symposium, USAF Academy, 1978  (Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office, 1979), 67. 79. Ibid. 80. See The United States v. Colonel William Mitchell,  1449–61 for Mitchell’s particularly ineffectual testimony regarding naval operations. His entire testimony runs from pages 1401 to 1612. Of interest, three members of the court were challenged by the defense and dismissed: Maj Gen CharlesCLODFELTER 113  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf