ed a power vacuum prior to the return of the colonial powers. In the Philippines , the Communist-led People’s Anti- Japanese Army  quickly changed its name to the People’s Liberation Army  and changed its mission to establishing a “People’s Democratic Republic by overthrowing American imperialism.” 11 The Huk insurgency  was on. By 1950 the insurgents had 15,000 men under arms, another 80,000 active supporters, and an estimated support base of at least half a million. At one point during that crucial year, insurgents threatened Manila  itself with a force of 10,000. The government did not get the insurgency  under control until 1954—and only after a shift in strategy that made civilian pacification programs (land reform and other social welfare reforms) an equal partner with military action.12 One finds a similar story in Malaya . After the Japanese surrender, the Communist-dominated Malayan People’s Anti-Japanese Army  disbanded but reappeared in a new guise, bent on throwing out the British. The situation in Malaya , however, differed significantly from problems faced by the government of the Philippines  and by the French in Indochina . In the Malayan case, the insurgent movement resided almost exclusively in the Chinese population— ethnically and culturally distinct from the native Malays.13 The combined military-civilian campaign waged against the Malayan insurgents was a strategic masterpiece, and, in retrospect, the insurgents never came close to winning.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 326  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 352 --- However, the protracted affair sputtered on through 1958 (the so-called Year of Mass Surrender )—not formally declared finished until July 1960. Meanwhile, the French faced very similar problems in Vietnam . The Vietminh , who had fought the Japanese occupation forces, resisted the return of the French and finally took to the hills to wage a bloody protracted revolutionary war . Unable to cope with the Vietminh , the French gave up th