. The nations attained consensus, but it took many years— and it carried a price. In order to maximize the effectiveness and efficiency of NATO airpower, nations have had to specialize in those areas most useful to the overall good. In some cases, this has resulted in hopelessly unbalanced air forces: excellent interceptors, but with no ground attack capability; or perhaps a strong tactical airlift fleet, but no tankers, strategic airlifters, or ability to project power. Nonetheless, the imperative of a serious, technically sophisticated, and numerically superior foe has forced a resultant and beneficial emphasis on quality, efficiency, standardization, and professionalism. The Soviet Union—the object of all these doctrinal evolutions both within the United States and in NATO—was undergoing its own metamorphosis. Understanding the Soviet, and then Russian, experience requires first that one recognize that doctrine and theory have a political component quite different than that operating in the West. To the Russians, military doctrine is neither a general theory nor the view of individuals. Rather, it is a system of official state views shaped and responsive to the ideological imperatives of the leadership. Although the Marxist-Leninist prism has been tarnished and discredited to a great degree, the political underpinnings of military doctrine represented by that ideology have not. The result is a relatively dogmatic approach to warfare: political objectives drive military doctrine, and that doctrine is not open for debate. Nonetheless, change has occurred in Russia, and since 1989 that change has been dramatic. The collapse of the Soviet Union signaled both massive external and internal changes. Not only did the entire strategic situation change xxvii  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 26 --- with the loss of ally/buffer states in Eastern Europe, but the privileged position and economic priority of the military within the state ended as well. The greatest e