ty of opposites” informed not only the object of war but also the strategy for war. He argued that in war, one seeks to destroy the enemy and preserve oneself. 35 This twofold object “is the essence of war and the basis of all war activities, an essence that pervades all war activities, from the technical to the strategic.” As such, “no technical, tactical, or strategic concepts or principles can in any way depart from it.” 36 In consequence, he preached that one should not characterize the War of Resistance against Japan  by either the “desperate recklessness” of perpetual attack or the “flightism”FADOK 369  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 394 --- of perpetual retreat. 37 Instead, the current military advantage enjoyed by Imperial Japan  demanded a blend of attack and retreat—of operational/tactical swiftness and strategic protraction. In this way alone could the Chinese resistance simultaneously preserve itself and defeat the enemy through gradual erosion of his relative superiority. Mao  insisted that calls for quick victory within the Chinese Communist camp had no basis in an objective appraisal of current capabilities and therefore played into the hands of the Japanese army . Similarly, calls for national subjugation within the Kuomintang government had no basis in an objective appraisal of future possibilities. In other words, Mao claimed that the Chinese could defeat Japan  tomorrow if they could survive today. Brandishing time as a weapon to achieve the dual object of enemy destruction and self-preservation, Mao ’s strategy of protracted war  proved successful in the Chinese resistance of Japan  and, later, in the Vietnamese resistance to both France  and the United States . Boyd  readily acknowledges the influence of Maoism and other Eastern philosophies of war on his own thoughts, an impact most evident in his emphasis on the temporal dimension of war—specifically, in his incorporation of the notion of time as a weapon. Yet, Boyd  fails to fully