to specify these military objectives as the enemy’s “vital centres ” of production, transportation, and communication from which the enemy sustains his war effort. 72 Trenchard  highlighted the moral effect of such attacks, claiming they would “terrorise munition workers (men and women) into absenting themselves from work or stevedores into abandoning the loading of a ship with munitions from fear of air attack  upon the factory or dock concerned.”73 Thus, British air policy had a dual nature in that it focused on destroying enemy capability and will to resist . It sought to produce strategic paralysis  by means of the psychological dislocation and terror that ensued from economic disruption and collapse. Meanwhile, in the United States , the Air Corps Tactical School  took the lead in developing American doctrine  for strategic bombardment. As mentioned, the preachings of Billy Mitchell  did influence this doctrinal development but so did the ideas of a fellow World War I  veteran, Col Edgar Gorrell . As chief of the Air Service Technical Section  in France , Gorrell was responsible for the Air Service ’s strategic air program for the war. Writing after the war, Gorrell  noted that “the object of strategic bombing  is to drop aerial bombs upon the commercial centers and the lines of communications  in such quantities as will wreck the points aimed at and cut off the necessary supplies without which the armies in the field cannot exist” (emphasis added). 74 He went on to compare the enemy’s armed forces to a drill bit. The “point” of the army would remain effective only so long as the “shank” of supporting infrastructure remained intact. Break the shank and the entire drill becomes useless. The ACTS  instructors fine-tuned Gorrell ’s ideas of economic warfare , transforming the “shank of the drill” into a closely knit industrial web requiring precision bombardment  to unweave it.75 They did not discount the potentially incapacitating effects on morale  that such pre