suit aircraft ; and a rapid, devastating aerial attack against hostile fleets, in which battleships  would be as helpless as “the armored knight when the firearm was brought against him.” (In the last case, Menoher  pointed out that for the price of one battleship , the Air Service  could field one thousand bombers  to crush a seaborne attack.) 54 Building on this logic, Milling  argued further that the Air Service  (and Air Corps ) was America ’s true line of defense against sea-based invasions. If Mitchell  were wrong (i.e., if the Navy  had any preventive role to play at all), the sea service would function merely as an advanced point or spearhead. 55 As the interwar period evolved, the challenge to the Navy ’s offshore defense mission only intensified. If America ’s security primarily depended on long-range air defenses , as Air Corps theorists  argued, the Navy  would never perform the mission. The aircraft of forward-deployed aircraft carriers , for example, would not concentrate on the air defense  of the nation but on meeting the strategic and tactical needs of the fleet. In other words, the Navy  would relegate national air defense  to a secondary role. The true focus of carrier aviation  would be to defeat the enemy fleet or help preserve US forces. 56 Any focus on land targets, bomber zealot Robert Webster  observed, would be “entirely a secondary consideration.” 57 Such alleged parochialism , however, was not the Navy ’s only problem. A second problem was that modern warships cost too much. If the Air Corps  could defend and control SLOCs  just as effectively as any naval action, its boosters asked, why spendTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 196  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 223 --- huge sums of money on unneeded battleships  and aircraft carriers ? Third, advocates of land-based aviation  openly doubted that naval commanders would risk their carriers  in raids against land objectives, especially in the name of “defensive” operations. Commanders would ha