l masters; these objectives prescribe the behavioral change(s) expected of the enemy leadership and suggest the level of paralysis  needed to effect the change(s). Second, the air strategist  must focus all energies in war on changing the mind of the enemy leadership, directly or indirectly, through the imposition of the necessary level of paralysis  upon him and/or his system. Third, the air strategist  must analyze the enemy as an interdependent system of five rings  to determine those COGs within and between rings whose destruction or neutralization will impose the necessary level of paralysis . Fourth, the air strategist  must plan to attack all defined targets in parallel  in order to produce the most rapid and favorable decision. At first glance, Warden ’s theory  of strategic paralysis  (fig. 4) is marked by a type of reductionism inherent in any systems-analysis approach. It attempts to simplify complex, dynamic sociocultural phenomena (the constitution, operation, and interaction of strategic entities) by reducing them to their basic parts or functions. In so doing, his theory risks losing explanatory power and practical relevance. Arguing that “social scientists make bad generals,” Eliot Cohen  cautions against such an analytical approach to military strategy  since it regards the enemy as “a passive collection of targets,” assumes that the enemy resembles us, and considers technology  rather than human nature the controlling element in war. He goes on to argue that these THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 376  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 401 --- assumptions “discourage the detailed study of one’s opponent, his language, politics, culture, tactics, and leadership.” 56 Col Pat Pentland  contends that such comprehensive study is crucial to effective strategy development since sociocultural factors determine both the form  or structure of an enemy and the process  or dynamics by which it operates. 57 To be fair, one must note that Warden  does not deny the ne