ain was doomed, the United States  should cut ties with that country and build up its own air strength. 38 De Seversky  countered that airpower had shrunk the globe to such an extent that US isolation was a thing of the past. Americans could no longer sit behind their oceans and ignore the affairs of Europe ; rather, they must support England  because her fight, inevitably, would one day be theirs. 39 In February 1942 de Seversky  collected these lessons, combined them with his ideas on airpower, and produced Victory through Air Power —a book designed to alert America  to the challenges of a modern, total war in which it was now involved, and to offer a strategy based on airpower for fighting that new form of war. Victory through Air Power  first takes the reader through a brief, selective history of the war, much of which repeats what de Seversky  had said the previous year. People who had followed his many magazine and newspaper articles would have found little new in this survey. De Seversky  reaffirmed airpower as the key to victory, maintaining that the airplane had eclipsed traditional forms of land  and sea warfare . He retells the stories of Poland , Norway , France , Crete , and the Battle of Britain  and derides the generals and admirals who attempted to fight with the methods and tactics of previous wars: “The lessons of this war can’t be shouted down by invoking the glories of the past.” 40 Although other people had begun to awake to this new form of war and sense its implications, de Seversky  emphasized that it was a revolution demanding equally revolutionary responses. Unfortunately, America  was not prepared for this challenge. Perhaps because he was still obsessed with what he considered unfair treatment by the AAF , de Seversky  felt the need to recount the story of his unsuccessful attempts to sell advanced fighter  aircraft to the government. He regales the reader with details about his ideas for increasing the range and firepower of American pla