t technology has overcome them. So why is there no surface power following? The answer is that five hundred years of Western experience have demonstrated that the argument, though consistent, is wrong. Despite the existence of a functional equivalence between two forms of military power (accepted as the roles-and-missions  equivalence at the outset of this essay) and the existence of the technical means to accomplish those functions, the fact remains that the environment and the technological means that posture us in those environments remain different. This is true of land  and sea power ; the examination of characteristics indicates that it is also true of airpower and space power . The additional argument posed by advocates of the space plane  is beside the point. Should a space plane  actually come to exist, it would merely reflect the capabilities of bothDEBLOIS 565  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 589 --- airpower and space power . Historically, though, dual- environment vehicles have proved more expensive and less capable than separate vehicles designed especially for each environment—witness the failure of the national aerospace plane (NASP) . (One should note that there are few, if any, sea-capable tanks.) Such experience should at least call into question the wisdom of pursuing a space plane  in the first place. Thus, doctrinal unification of aerospace power is no more justifiable than doctrinal unification of surface power. In spite of compelling evidence that airpower and space power  remain distinct, one can argue credibly that the Air Force , in practice, ought to manage both. The current, battle-proven emphasis on jointness  runs counter to splitting off another component of the joint force and thereby providing one more seam in the battlefield. Fiscally, a separate space organization would require more overhead—a distinct bureaucracy, independent R&D , test and evaluation programs, and another acquisition  stovepipe. The counterargument co