lity of predictable orbit locations—supports the survivability position. Remoteness also allows for plausible deniability of the attacker, which increases the probability of attack. The Survivability School calls for recognizing that space forces  are not dependable in crisis situations. Thus, one should limit military space missions to communications, surveillance , reconnaissance , and weather reporting. From this perspective, investment strategies ought to fund those missions, along with redundant space/terrestrial programs and perhaps ground-based antisatellites (ASAT) .DEBLOIS 535  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 559 --- The Space Control School recognizes space power  as coequal with airpower, land power , and sea power ; thus, military space policy  must balance investments in airpower, land power , sea power , and space power  to meet the anticipated threat. The Department of Defense (DOD)  and the Air Force  have favored the Space Control School since the 1980s. Current political emphasis on jointness  and the mentality that “everybody has a hand in space” prompt a Space Control School approach, as clearly reflected in published and proposed Air Force  and joint doctrine .19 The High-Ground School advocates space as the high ground—the location from which a nation will win or lose future wars . Using space-based ballistic missile defense (BMD)  to convert the current offensive stalemate of mutually assured destruction  to mutually assured survival has some appeal. The supporters of this school advocate the militarization of space and the adoption of a corresponding policy. In their view, investments ought to focus on both offensive and defensive space systems at the expense of air, land, and sea systems. Funding would include space-based ASATs , directed-energy weapons (DEW) , and BMD  with maneuverable, space-to-space, space-to-air, and space-to-ground capability. Air-to-space (airborne laser or kinetic miniature homing vehicle ASATs )20 and gro