tion of a proper air force for national defense ; it was the Navy  that was encroaching on the “prerogatives and proper duties” of the Air Corps ; and it was the Navy  that was neglecting its own role of functioning as a spearhead operating exclusively against enemy fleets. 66 Second, the Air Corps  redoubled its efforts to assume Navy responsibilities (and more), as illustrated in a 1933 memorandum by George C. Kenney  to the assistant commandant of the Army War College . (Kenney  was an influential ACTS  instructor from 1927 to 1931.) Yes, the role of the Air Corps  was to perform coastal defense and thus provide the Navy  complete freedom of action, as specified by the MacArthur-Pratt Agreement . On the other hand, specific Air Corps  objectives, as suggested by Kenney , were suspiciously unorthodox. The familiar objective of air superiority  was present, as was the requirement to defend vital American industrial centers, naval bases, airfields, and other critical resources. But Kenney  also included as an objective “the location [of] and attack upon hostile vessels, landing parties, airdromes, troop and supply concentrations at sea or on land, vital enemy lines of communication  and industrial centers.”67 Obviously, the last objective attacked Navy  prerogatives on two levels. First, Kenney  not only extended air operations  far out to sea but also defined attacking “enemy lines of communication and industrial centers” as a defensive activity. Second, both roles were implicitly strategic and involved operating aircraft independently of land and sea forces.FABER 199  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 226 --- The Navy ’s response to these complaints was to rescind the MacArthur-Pratt Agreement  in 1935. 68 As a result, the Air Corps ’s ultimate intrusion into the Navy ’s domain was not attributable to mutual cooperation or concessions to its complaints. Instead, it was attributable to the Air Corps ’s ability to provide a clearly stated alternative to sea