come almost embarrassingly repetitious after 1925 or so. Moreover, his inordinate and near-neurotic hatred of the Navy distorted much of his writing, confused his message, and left a legacy of animosity between the two services that has never fully healed. One could certainly argue, both paradoxically and heretically, that because of his incessant attacks, the Navy was forced to adapt in ways it otherwise might not have. xv  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 14 --- Consequently, Mitchell may have been the father of both naval aviation and interservice rivalry. If this hypothesis is accurate, one could further argue that precisely because of his enormous popularity and influence within the Air Service, Billy Mitchell was both one of the best and one of the worst things that ever happened to American airpower. Undoubtedly, many naval aviators would resent the implication that the rise of their branch was somehow due to the rabble-rousing of Billy Mitchell. Naval aircraft had participated in the Veracruz operation of 1914, and their record in World War I was sound if not glorious. After the war, farsighted naval airmen like John Towers and Ernie King pushed hard for the development of aircraft carriers and a change in naval doctrine and organization to accompany those carriers. In 1921 the Navy formed the Bureau of Aeronautics and placed Adm William Moffett in charge. Moffett was certainly no friend of the outspoken Mitchell and people of like mind. But the former battleship captain realized that a sea change was in the offing in naval warfare and moved to alter his service’s thinking to accommodate that change. In this regard, he was assisted by the Washington Naval Conference of 1921–22 that placed strict limits on the tonnage of capital ships. If battleships could not be built under the treaty, aircraft carriers certainly could, and by the end of the decade the  Langley, Lexington,  and  Saratoga were in commission. Although surface seamen still dominated t