gnificant differences, Flugel’s charges of plagiarism remain unproven. 75. This was the translation done by Dorothy Benedict with the assistance of Capt George Kenney. It is based on the French translation in Les Ailes of 1933 and can be found in the US Air Force Historical Research Agency, file 168.6005-18. For other writings about Douhet at the time, see Col Charles DeF Chandler, “Air Warfare Doctrine of General Douhet,” U.S. Air Services,  May 1933, 10–13; “Air Warfare Trends,” U.S. Air Services, August 1933, 8–9; L. E. O. Charlton, War from the Air: Past, Present, Future (London: Thomas Nelson, 1935); and “Air Warfare,” Royal Air Force Quarterly  7 (April 1936): 152–68.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 40  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 69 --- Chapter 2 Trenchard, Slessor, and Royal Air Force Doctrine before World War II Col Phillip S. Meilinger British airmen believed in the efficacy of strategic airpower almost from the inception of the airplane, perhaps because Britain  was a traditional sea power. Naval war  is in many respects economic war ; although battles occur, the primary objective is generally to apply pressure on a country’s commerce and economy to force a change in policy. To an extent, airpower flows from the same basic premise. Airmen argued, however, that the new medium could apply such pressure far more comprehensively, directly, and quickly. The catastrophic experience of the Great War  confirmed for Royal Air Force (RAF)  leaders that traditional methods of warfare no longer served a useful purpose. If war were to be at all viable, it had to be fought in a more rational fashion and not require the destruction of an entire generation. British airmen returned to the basics. The object of war was to force an enemy to bend to one’s will, accomplished by breaking either his will  or his capability to fight. Armies were generally condemned to concentrate on the latter by seeking battle. Hugh Trenchard , the first chief of the RAF  and its commander fr