ote both goals in myriad ways. In one example, it hosted a national Junior Birdmen event in a balloon hangar at Brooks Field, Texas , and then provided the attendees tours of Randolph Field , home of the Air Corps ’s Primary Flying School .) The above examples are hardly exhaustive. They do show, however, that as part of a loose four-part strategy, members of the Air Service /Air Corps  strenuously promoted the idea that America  was first and foremost an airpower nation. They not only adopted and applied the idea to themselves but also tried to indoctrinate the general public—especially America’s youth. Because of their efforts and the parallel successes of their civilian counterparts (like Charles Lindbergh , Wiley Post , and Amelia Earhart ), they made significant progress. The Air Service  did inspire a sufficient number of airheads, both in the public at large and in Congress , to ensure that it survived the parsimonious budgets  of the early 1920s. Then, the Air Corps  slowly but inexorably cultivated public support, not only for aviation in general but also for its drive for organizational and doctrinal autonomy. (By 1938 the public’s support was broad enough that the Southeastern Aviation Conference , held at the relatively isolated Jefferson Davis Hotel in Montgomery, Alabama, attracted over two hundred participants, including such luminaries as Doolittle , Eddie Rickenbacker , and C. E. Falk , president of Delta Airways.) 33 The drive for acceptance and autonomy, however, required the Air Service /Air Corps  to do more than merely promote the redefinition of America  as an airpower nation.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 190  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 217 --- The Versatility of Airpower in Peacetime Roles A skeptic once asked Benjamin Franklin if untethered balloons had any utility. His rhetorical answer—“What is the use of a new born babe? It may become a man”— foreshadowed the thinking of Army  aviators in the 1920s and 1930s. 34 Yes, their immediate