rapidly moving ground forces  could encircle and destroy enemy forces paralyzed by airpower. Von Seeckt  wrote thatTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 170  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 198 --- the war will begin with a simultaneous attack of the air fleets—the weapon which is the most prepared and the fastest means of attacking the enemy. Their target is, however, not the major cities or industrial power, but the enemy air force, and only after its suppression can the offensive arm be directed toward other targets. . . . It is stressed that all major troop mobilization centers are worthwhile and easy targets. The disruption of the personnel and materiel mobilization is a primary mission of the aerial offensive. 75 Von Seeckt  insisted that the German army  become the most air-minded in the world. Although Germany  was disarmed in the air, von Seeckt  ordered that the army  keep 180 pilot officers to provide the core of an Air Staff. 76 He initiated a program of secret testing, training, and development of airpower in the Soviet Union .77 German operational regulations that were developed under von Seeckt  between 1921 and 1923 contained extensive discussion of airpower  on both the strategic and tactical  levels. The German army  of the interwar period maintained a thorough study of airpower theories  and technologies  of other nations. Writings and speeches of such air leaders as Gen Billy Mitchell , Air Marshal Hugh Trenchard , and Gen J. F. C. Fuller  were quickly translated and disseminated throughout the German military .78 Douhet , however, received little attention from German air thinkers in the 1920s. Wilberg , who had made his reputation in World War I  as a leader in the development of close air support , also led the Air Staff in developing concepts of strategic air war  as early as 1924. That year, the Reichswehr  secret Air Staff conducted an air war game  that included a plan for a strategic bombing campaign against France . The Germans studied French a