ences, its development proved something less—but perhaps not far less—than a logical inevitability. Again, one should consider the parallels between analyses of strategic airpower  during the interwar years and strategic nuclear airpower  after the Second World War . In both cases,THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 290  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 316 --- theorists based their works on relatively limited empirical evidence. Douhet  and his counterparts could look back at the limited applications of airpower during the Great War  and extrapolate what the next war might look like. They could refer to the ways in which states and populations reacted to the privations inflicted upon them by bombing and blockade during the war, and to the ways in which armies responded to bombardment and exsanguination on the front lines. Similarly, nuclear theorists  could examine the physical, psychological, and political evidence provided by atomic and conventional  strategic bombing  during the Second World War and seek to integrate this and other historical knowledge with more recent technological developments. 31 In both cases, the next war looked like something one should assiduously avoid, although anticipating its details involved considerable—if educated—speculation. According to Harold Macmillan , “We thought of air warfare  in 1938 rather as people think of nuclear warfare  today.” 32 Important differences existed between the two cases, however. First, for all the postwar theorists’ hypothesizing about the future, in general they did not face great uncertainties about the physical effects of the weapons under discussion (though some of the nuclear scientists who developed the atomic  bomb deduced many of the essentials of postwar nuclear deterrence theory  before the advent of any real information regarding actual weapons effects).33 Second, a far smaller number of theorists , few of them with academic training, dominated airpower thought during the interwar period. Most of t