icers of his time, Mitchell  could recite Clausewitz ’s dictum on the objective of war, but he did so with a parochial twist. Airpower would wreck an enemy’s will  to fight by destroying his capability to resist, and the essence of that capability was not the army or navy but the nation’s industrial and agricultural underpinnings. Eliminating industrial production “would deprive armies, air forces and navies . . . of their means of maintenance.” 53 Airpower also offered the chance to directly attack the will to fight. Mitchell equated the will of a nation to the will of its populace, but he vacillated about the propriety of bombing civilians . On the one hand, he called for attacks on “the places where people live and carry on their daily lives” to discourage their “desire to renew the combat at a later date,” advocated burning Japanese metropolitan areas in the event of a war with Japan , and noted that poison gas  could be used to contaminate water supplies and spur evacuations from cities. On the other hand, in a bombing manual that he wrote in 1922 for Air Service officers, he argued that attacking a factory was ethical only if its workers received “sufficient warning that the center will be destroyed” and that “in rare instances Bombardment aviation will be required to act as an arm of reprisal.” 54 The dominant theme emerging from these discussions was not the desire to attack civilians directly but the desire to sever the populace from the sources of production. “It may be necessary to intimidate the civilian population in a certain area to force them to discontinue something which is having a direct bearing on the outcome of the conflict,” Mitchell observed in his bombing manual. Achieving that goal might cause some civilian deaths, but the number would pale compared to the deaths produced by a ground war  between industrialized powers. Moreover, once bombed, civilians  were unlikely to continue supporting the war effort. “In the future, the mere threat of b