cies often earned wry smiles at the time, he was proven correct in a surprisingly short period of time. 7 Mitchell ’s main focus, however, did not immediately turn to visions of airpower. After assignments once again in Cuba  and the Philippines , in 1912, at age 32, he became the youngest officer on the Army ’s General Staff. As the lone Signal Corps representative, he was responsible for appraising its fledglingTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 82  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 111 --- aviation—which consisted of four aircraft in various states of repair. To gain insight, he called upon Lt Henry H. “Hap” Arnold , an instructor pilot at the Signal Corps ’s aviation school at College Park, Maryland. 8 The two established a close friendship that endured until Mitchell ’s death in 1936, and their ties would have significant consequences for the development of American airpower . Arnold  testified on Mitchell ’s behalf at his 1925 court-martial and would be “banished” to Fort Riley, Kansas , for continuing to spout Mitchell ’s beliefs after the hearing; as the commanding general of the Army Air Forces  during World War II , he would remain committed to Mitchell ’s notions. Initially, however, Arnold provided aviation expertise to Mitchell , who had not yet learned to fly. Nonetheless, at this stage, Mitchell  was not yet sold on the efficacy of aviation. In 1913, when Cong. James Hay  proposed a bill that would have created an “air corps” equivalent in stature to the infantry, cavalry, or artillery, Mitchell  balked. He reviewed the proposal and determined that aviation was essential to Signal Corps  reconnaissance  and communication. “The offensive value of this thing has yet to be proved,” he concluded. 9 Yet, Mitchell  was intrigued by aviation, and the outbreak of war in Europe  heightened his interest in the airplane’s military potential. After finishing his General Staff assignment in June 1916, he became deputy head of the Signal Corps Aviation Section  and was p