an did other countries. Similarities exist between the type of long-term—and long-range—economic warfare characterized by a naval campaign and the aerial bombing of a country’s centers of gravity. The broad, strategic thinking required of sailors was akin to that required of strategic airpower advocates. On the other hand, the four major continental powers in interwar Europe—Italy, France, the Soviet Union, and Germany—were traditional land powers. Logically, they saw airpower from a ground perspective. Giulio Douhet was an exception; most of his countrymen had different ideas on the proper use of airpower. Amedeo Mecozzi was a decorated combat air veteran who rejected Douhet’s calls for an emphasis on strategic airpower. Instead, he stressed the need for tactical aviation to cooperate with the army. His ideas were adopted by the Italian air minister, Italo Balbo, and the composition of the air arm took on a balance that Douhet would have found dismaying. It mattered little. A combination of poor leadership, political indecision, corruption, and financial constraints resulted in a weak and ineffectual air force at the outbreak of World War II—despite il duce’ s exhortations to the contrary. The story in France was similar. At the close of World War I, the French air force was one of the largest and most well respected in the world. The psychic paralysis that gripped the army, however, was transmitted to the entire defense establishment. With the exception of Air Minister Pierre Cot and a handful of his disciples, the French were simply not interested in a defense policy that advocated offensive operations—especially strategic air operations that might xvii  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 16 --- bring retaliation down on French cities. As in Italy, when World War II broke out, the French air force was hopelessly outclassed by the Luftwaffe. Moreover, French doctrine, which emphasized the primacy of defensive air operations, made the air arm almost an irre