ubjected to such moral torture that it would be obliged to cry ‘Enough’ before  the war could be decided upon the surface” (emphasis in original).30 In other words, he came close to identifying the enemy air force as the key vital center . In a sense,  therefore, Douhet  also stressed the need for a decisive counterforce battle, as did the land-war theorists he so decried. Douhet  did not advocate that aircraft attack or assist surface forces . The strength of airpower lay in its use as a strategic  weapon, not a tactical  one. He did concede, however, that the air campaign might take six days or six months, “depending on the intensity of the offensive and the staunchness of the people’s hearts.” This meant that although command of the air and the subsequent devastation of a country’s vital centers would probably produce victory, airpower might still need to defeat the enemy’s ground forces if surrender were not immediately forthcoming. If all elseTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 12  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 41 --- failed, ground troops would occupy enemy territory. To Douhet , this last option would seldom be necessary; even the need to defeat the surface forces was unlikely. 31 In reality, this prediction has yet to come true, because defeat of an army has a psychological as well as a physical effect. Now, as then, a country is generally unwilling to yield if its ground forces are still intact. The Persian Gulf War of 1991 seemed to indicate that, for psychological reasons, defeating the Iraqi army was still necessary, but in this case airpower was able to do so with incomparably greater efficiency and at lower risk than by using ground forces . Because Douhet  thought air attacks on a country’s vital centers were of primary importance, he saw little use for “auxiliary aviation ” (pursuit or attack aircraft). His ideas on this subject grew more radical over time. In the first edition of The Command of the Air  (1921), he recognized the utility of auxiliary av