o way suitable for strategic air war , argued Fiebig , and could carry out only limited support operations. Fiebig  advised the Soviets to postpone strategic air campaigns until they reached a higher technological level. 58 The German air mission to the Soviet Union , which lasted from 1925 to 1933, served not only to train future senior officers at the Red Air Force ’s General Staff Academy  but also trained regular Soviet pilots and ground crews at the German training base at Lipetsk . No one knows the exact figures, but several hundred Soviet air officers came into contact with the Germans during this period and were strongly influenced by the ideas of the German air force .59 The Germans were not averse to strategic bombing theory  but also emphasized the fundamentals of cooperation with ground troops  at the operational level. At enormous sacrifice to the nation under Stalin ’s first fiv e-year plan, the Red Air Force  made tremendous  technological strides in the late 1920s and early 1930s. By 1932 Soviet industryCORUM 165  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 193 --- was finally able to mass-produce modern aircraft and engines. At this time, largely under the influence of A. N. Lapchinsky , the Soviets began building the largest strategic bomber force—three hundred to four hundred aircraft—in the world, with the four-engined TB3  bomber as the backbone of the force. 60 In 1934–35 the Soviets formed a special heavy bomber air corps for strategic operations. 61 Yet, even as the Soviet Union  created a strategic bomber force , mainstream thought within the Red Air Force  returned to the concept of joint air-ground operations , as outlined by Marshal Tukhachevski . By the mid- to late 1930s, the experience of the war in Spain  came to have a great influence upon the development of Soviet air thought. Between 1936 and 1939, the Soviet Union  made a major commitment to the support of the Spanish Republic. The largest component of the Soviet commitment to Loya