er full of options to be applied in rapid, staccato thrusts. His approach to strategic paralysis  did not entail battering the enemy’s economy but his leadership and its control over the country. In a similar vein, John Warden ’s conceptualization of the air campaign  was more political than economic. 4 His scheme for translating national political objectives and strategic goals into theater air campaigns  involved identifying the enemy’s center of gravity —the point where he is most vulnerable to air attack . Although Warden  visualized five  concentric rings—targets in descending order of priority—he leaves no doubt that leadership at the national center, and in each successive ring or target, is always the preferred objective. The beauty of Warden ’s work for the strategic planner  is the way he relates ends  (political objectives), ways  (strategies to attain those ends), and means (identifying specific targets to execute the chosen strategy). Because his well-trained team carried out this process in planning air operations  for Operation Desert Storm , we have a helpful degree of authentication for Warden ’s airpower theories. Taken together, the work of Boyd and Warden  offers an impressive index of the remarkable advance in airpower thinking beyond the crudities of Douhet and Mitchell . However, that both Boyd  and Warden  retired as colonels strongly suggests the marginal status of airpower theorists  in the contemporary Air Force . The increasing sophistication of airpower thought represented by the work of Boyd  and Warden  had parallels in many respects elsewhere in the Air Force . One sees a notable instance of this in the greater willingness of airmen to work constructively with the Army  to resolve the long-standing problem of hammering out an effective air-ground relationship. Many factors contributed to this “partnership”; indeed, the very use of the term seemed to signal a new set of attitudes in both parties. In part, the shift in attitude may have