e city to avoid a possible German air assault .44 The problem with such apocalyptic predictions was that they failed to address whether morale  was even a relevant issue in a tightly organized police state—as were Germany  and Japan  during World War II . In addition, the dire predictions of Douhet  and others erred by underestimating the resiliency of human beings in the face of adversity. Civilian morale did not break in World War II with anywhere near the rapidity or finalityTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 20  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 49 --- predicted by Douhet : cities were not inhabited by mere rabble who would collapse at the first application of pressure. 45 Perhaps, as one observer noted, Douhet ’s theories assumed wars occurring between the democratic countries of Europe, 46 whose governments are responsive to the wishes of the population. However, such is not generally the case in a dictatorship, whose leaders may ignore the desires of the people; indeed, the state police may prevent the people from making their wishes known. In such a circumstance, the morale  of the population, even if affected by aerial bombardment,  may be irrelevant to the despot. Similarly, a country in the throes of civil war may not be responsive to any government, or a government may have little control over its population. In  such situations, the moral effect of bombing  would be negligible— or, at least, would not operate using the mechanism envisioned by Douhet . Similarly, Douhet  exaggerated the physical effects of aerial bombs, but in this case he should have known better. He postulated absurdly uniform and effective bombing —no duds, no misses, no overlap, no difference in the composition and construction of targets struck. In fact, he seemed to assume that all wars occurred in clear weather and that all pilots and bombardiers—and their equipment—performed flawlessly. For example, he stated that a 100-kilogram bomb (220 pounds) would destroy anything within a 50-mete