ation had not really changed the worldview of most of the Navy ’s officers corps by 1947. In a generic way, the primary objective of navies remained command of the sea, although not much of a challenge to the hegemony of the US Navy existed at that point. Exploitation through mining and blockade  came out of the war with new prestige, at least to seamen. Even though the Navy  had little enthusiasm for the invasion of Japan , the success of amphibious operations across the Pacific  reaffirmed that mode as another way of exploiting command of the sea. On the eve of the unificationMETS 135  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 164 --- debate, such support as had existed for either a separate air force  or a unified defense department was much diminished among officers who had fought the war in the Pacific  and in Washington . Internally, the task method of organization had the prestige of success in recent combat behind it. The most significant change in naval thought  had come in the employment of naval forces  to achieve command of the sea. Battleships  and other surface vessels found themselves largely relegated to supporting roles—as antiaircraft platforms in carrier task forces  and as fire-support platforms for amphibious task forces . The aircraft carrier  had become the capital ship  in command of sea operations—and that change was widely accepted by Navy  people. They also gave more thought to the value and limitations of strategic bombing , mostly the latter. Notwithstanding the conclusions of the US Strategic Bombing Survey , the idea that one could coerce nations without first defeating their armies and navies did not receive wide support within the Navy . The survey emphasized the great value of the submarine campaign in the Pacific war , but, clearly, the prestige of the air arm overshadowed that of the submariners. In the end, then, aviation  apparently integrated itself into the Navy  and its thinking, mostly in the realm of method rather than obj