ies of “tactical ” and “strategical ” aviation. He made his proposal to Gen John J. Pershing ’s chief of staff, Brig Gen James G. Harbord , who arrived in France  with the commanding general in mid-June 1917. “Tactical” aviation  would consist of squadrons attached to divisions, corps, or armies and would operate as any other combat arm. In contrast, “strategical” aviation  “would be bombardment and pursuit formations and would have an independent mission very much as independent cavalry used to have. . . . They would be used to carry the war well into the enemy’s country.” 14 This mission, he insisted, could have “a greater influence on the ultimate decision of the war than any other arm.” 15 Soon after receiving Mitchell ’s plan, Pershing  selected a board of officers to determine the proper composition for AEF aviation. Because Mitchell  was the senior American aviator in Europe , the general made him chief of the newly created Air Service , which had replaced the Signal Corps  as the Army ’s air organization in the AEF .16 Mitchell ’s appointment did not, however, guarantee his proposal’s acceptance. On 11 July, Pershing  outlined a comprehensive plan for AEF  organization that authorized 59 squadrons of tactical aircraft  for service with the field armies. The plan made no mention of an independent force for “strategical” operations. Pershing ’s failure to approve the proposal caused Mitchell  to redouble his efforts. In August 1917 he asked the AEF ’s intelligence branch to provide information on strategic targets in Germany  and later received a list of industrial targets  in the Ruhr from the French. 17 His staff also explored in more detail the possibilities of bombing Germany . His officers performed this activity in relative splendor, for Mitchell  chose the Château de Chamrandes, a magnificent hunting lodge built by Louis XV, as his headquarters. 18 He was always flamboyant. One of his more capable staff officers was Nap Gorrell , a 26-year-old major who