ng you know you are going to have Congress telling you and your colleagues in the Navy  that you are not abreast of modern trends of thought in the matter of how to make war.” 51 Airmen also had concerns about the book, but for different reasons. Although they welcomed the call for a separate air force , de Seversky ’s stinging attacks on Arnold troubled them. As a result, the AAF  ignored the book, although some people made behind-the-scenes attempts to discredit it. 52 One de Seversky  supporter deplored such machinations, writing that “the drive to ‘destroy’ Seversky  is the symptom of a deeper struggle, under the surface, between military diehards and military progressives.” 53 On the other hand, several informed commentators found the book both fascinating and significant. For example, one wrote that “it is the duty of every adult citizen who can lay his hands on $2.50 to buy it and ponder its message.” Another commented, “While many specific statements of this book may be questioned, an open-minded reader is obliged to conclude that the author is more nearly right than wrong in his views.” Finally, one said simply that “it is more important for Americans than all the other war books put together.” 54 The public was enthusiastic about  Victory through Air Power , and its status as a Book of the Month Club selection guaranteed a wide and literate audience. The publisher even brought  it out in paperback—rare for a serious work at that time. Consequently, an estimated 5 million Americans read it. Given de Seversky ’s many other articles and radio addresses, George Gallup estimated that over 20 million people knew of de Seversky  and his message—an astounding figure in the days before television. 55 In fact, Walt Disney  approached de Seversky with a plan to turn Victory through Air Power  into a movie.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 256  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 283 --- The famed cartoon filmmaker wished to contribute to the war effort by making military tr