name has nonetheless become synonymous with a particular version of air warfare . Giulio Douhet  has generated intense and partisan debate over the past seven decades. Undoubtedly, he had many things wrong, but he also had many things right. World War II and Desert Storm  proved the accuracy of his fundamental premise—that command of the air is crucial to success in a conventional war. Despite Douhet ’s many theoretical deficiencies,  the scope and audacity of his work point to a man of great intellect. Considering that it took over two thousand years of warfare on land and sea to produce Henri de Jomini , Carl von Clausewitz , and Alfred Thayer Mahan , we should not be overly critical of the airman who began writing a theory of air war scarcely one decade after the invention of the airplane. Notes 1. Frank J. Cappelluti, “The Life and Thought of Giulio Douhet” (PhD diss., Rutgers University, 1967), 3–7, 10. Incidentally, Caserta is the present location of the Italian air force academy. 2. Giulio Douhet, The Command of the Air,  trans. Sheila Fischer (Rome: Rivista Aeronautica, 1958), from the introduction by Gen Celso Ranieri, ix. The Italian air force considers this the official translation of Douhet’s major works; I have therefore used it where possible. Unfortunately, this version does not contain complete translations of “Probable Aspects of Future War” or “The War of 19—,” which are included in the Ferrari translation of 1942, cited in note 29 below. 3. Douhet (Fischer translation), 22. 4. Cappelluti, 66. 5. Douhet (Fischer translation), x. 6. The Origin of Air Warfare,  2d ed., trans. Renalto D’Orlando (Rome: Historical Office of the Italian Air Force, 1961), passim; and D. J.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 34  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 63 --- Fitzsimmons, “The Origins of Air Warfare,” Air Pictorial,  December 1972, 482–85. 7. The Origin of Air Warfare,  214–16. 8. Douhet (Fischer translation), 123. 9. Cappelluti, 69; K. Booth, “History or Logic as Appro