nd 1941, the Soviets went through several reorganizations. The large, independent bomber command , organized in the mid-1930s, was downgraded and reorganized in 1940. 66 Bomber forces split into smaller units under the army regional command, oriented more toward tactical aviation . The Soviets’ emphasis upon tactical aviation  at this time was not solely a response to the experience in Spain  but also a pragmatic approach to understanding their own position with respect to technology . The Soviet industry  of this time did not produce the radios, navigation instruments, sophisticated bombsights, and other technologically advanced matériel needed for long-distance strategic bombing campaigns. Creation of simple, rugged aircraft to serve as light bombers  and fighters , however, lay within the capabilities of Soviet industry . Therefore, on the eve of war, the Soviets reoriented much of their aircraft production to the building of assault aircraft  and light bombers , as well as fighter planes to escort  them. It was a wise decision. Purges of the military enacted by Stalin  between 1937 and 1939 were an unmitigated disaster for the development of Soviet air thought, as well as for the military capability of the Soviet Union . In 1937 Marshal Tukhachevski  was arrested and executed. Gen Ya. I. Alksnis , commander of the Red Air Force since 1931, also was arrested and executed, and his deputy disappeared. An estimated 75 percent of Red Air Force  officers vanished between 1937 and 1939. General Lapchinsky , the strategic theorist , also was arrested and executed. At one stroke, several of the most original and influential airpower thinkers  of the interwar period disappeared.67 Small wonder that the Soviet air force  found itself ill prepared to meet the onslaught of the Wehrmacht  in June 1941. Even so, the fact that a handful of men could begin with the ramshackle Russian air force  of the civil war era and within a decade and a half turn it into a formidable air for