r developing the means of recovering such catapulted aircraft without stopping the ship—clearly suicidal in the presence of enemy surface ships or submarines .27 On the other hand, if one accepted the assumption that the decision in war would come through use of the battleship fleet’s guns, then the provision of aerial spotting  throughMETS 121  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 150 --- aircraft carriers , which could recover their “birds” while under way, would introduce another whole class of ships to the Navy line. This would come at a time when funding and manning were insufficient to take care of the requirements that already existed. Flying boats , featuring long range and a developed technology , could provide both scouting and spotting  without that new line of ships (and one could greatly expand their areas of coverage by the use of tenders easily converted from ships already in the Navy ). The flying boats , in fact, had just achieved enormous prestige by crossing the Atlantic in 1919. They did not inhibit the execution of the primary mission of the battleships  and did not compete for funds and people nearly as much as carrier  planes and their required ships. Numerous aviators would support that reasoning. Bellinger , one of the most prominent, clearly was not skeptical of the value of shipboard aviation . He did not see much of a future for kite balloons  or nonrigid airships , but he saw great value in shipboard aircraft  supporting the battle line once air forces had achieved command of the air. Still, in 1924, he perceived enormous potential in the development of long-range flying boats .28 Moreover, notwithstanding the great promise and glamour of the initial operations of the Saratoga  and Lexington , those operations involved many difficulties, and their security with the fleet posed constraints on the offensive preferences of the commanders. 29 Many people made similar arguments in favor of airships . Thus, the thinking of the gun club w