chemical warfare by both sides. 84. See, for example, Col John A. Warden III, “Employing Air Power in the Twenty-first Century,” in Richard H. Shultz Jr. and Robert L. Pfaltzgraff Jr., eds., The Future of Air Power in the Aftermath of the Gulf War  (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, July 1992), 57–82. For a discussion of Warden’s theories, see David Fadok’s essay in this volume; for critiques of those theories, see Robert A. Pape Jr., Bombing to Win (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1996).THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 320  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 346 --- Chapter 9 Air Theory, Air Force, and Low Intensity Conflict: A Short Journey to Confusion Prof. Dennis M. Drew As the end of the twentieth century approaches, American airmen are confronted with two different but not mutually exclusive visions of future warfare . The first, stemming from the Gulf War , perceives airpower dominating modern mechanized warfare. The second discerns modern mechanized warfare—especially as demonstrated in the Gulf War —as a thing of the past. In the latter view, the future of warfare increasingly lies in the ill-defined realm of low intensity conflict (LIC) . Both visions may be accurate; if so, the truth of the first vision has a great deal to do with the truth of the second. After all, if airpower dominates “conventional” warfare , then countries that cannot field superior air forces must employ “unconventional” means to gain military success. This essay does not seek to bolster or challenge either of these two visions. Rather, it explores the relationship between LIC since World War II  and the theory of airpower as perceived by the US Air Force . The thesis is straightforward; specifically, the US Air Force  has not effectively accounted for the realities of LIC  in its theory of airpower. As this essay demonstrates, to a large extent, the Air Force has ignored LIC  as much as possible, preferring to think of it as little more than a small version of conventiona