ered an important means of exerting directly the will of the Commander-in-Chief.” 118 As a result, the commission called for a highly mobile GHQ Air Force  that would operate as an “independent striking unit” and not merely as a strategic reserve. The Army , in the mistaken hope that the Air Corps  would divide itself into pro- and anti-GHQ factions, finally agreed to the idea. On 1 March 1935 the semiautonomous GHQ Air Force became a reality but only after multiple aviation boards and commissions had sponsored a number of incremental reforms. This political victory, however, was merely the third component of a four-part strategy. The remaining part required the Air Corps  to develop a new theory and doctrine of warfare that maximized the independent  use of airpower. The responsibility to develop this theory and doctrine devolved almost immediately to the Air Corps Tactical School .THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 210  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 237 --- The Air Corps Tactical School: Incubator of Bombardment Theory and Doctrine In reality, five organizations contributed to the development of American air doctrine  in the interwar years: the conservative War Department  (including the Army General Staff), the moderate Office of the Chief of the Air Corps , the equable GHQ Air Force , the progressive Air Corps Board (particularly in the mid- to late-1930s), and the radical Air Corps Tactical School . However, of the five contributors to the concept of unescorted HAPDB , the most important was ACTS . It divided its 20-year existence between Langley Field, Virginia , and Maxwell Field, Alabama , but one can arrange its theoretical and doctrinal development into roughly three phases (with some overlap between phases two and three). From 1920 to 1926 the school established the primacy of the bomber  and developed its core principles of employment. From 1927 to 1934, the Bomber Mafia  developed a uniquely American way of air warfare —unescorted HAPDB  against the key n