orts, and one cannot understand the military strategy  without understanding its political context.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 444  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 468 --- The essay’s major divisions mark changes in NATO military strategy , focusing on the 1970s and 1980s—the “Golden Age” of the development of NATO air doctrine . This assessment does not imply a retrenchment in doctrinal development within the alliance since that time. Rather, it suggests that those two decades represent the process of doctrinal creation and refinement. Indeed, the 1990s may yet become the true Golden Age. NATO’s Central Region  receives most of the emphasis here because therein lay the threat from massed Warsaw Pact  and Soviet forces. However, significant differences in doctrinal development existed between the Central Region  and the other two major areas—the Southern Region  and the Northern Region . Also highlighted is the Supreme Allied Commander, Europe (SACEUR)  area of operations (which includes the three major NATO  regions); however, discussion of Supreme Allied Commander, Atlantic (SACLANT) 8 is limited to air doctrine for tactical air support  of maritime operations. Additionally, this chapter addresses the way in which NATO  produces its doctrine. 9 Origins to 1967 Although this chapter does not intend to cover the political origins of NATO ,10 four key events greatly affected the military strategy adopted by the alliance in the early 1950s. First, NATO  came into existence after the World War II  alliance among the great powers of the West (the United States  and the United Kingdom ) and the Soviet Union  had irrevocably dissolved. Failure to achieve a peace treaty, the Soviet blockade of Berlin , and the continued presence of massive Soviet forces outside the USSR ’s borders all pointed to an increased, not decreased, security threat. 11 The coup in February 1948 that overthrew the democratically elected government in Czechoslovakia  prompted the eventual formatio