n Mary C. FitzGerald, “Russia’s Vision of Air-Space War,” Air Force Magazine,  December 1993, 79. 120. During the mid-1980s, I participated with top US scientists and industrialists in several industrial mobilization forums conducted at the Naval War College during the annual Global Wargame and at National Defense University. The main problem with industrial mobilization and surge was “rampup.” For example, changing from peacetime production of one type of US missile to its wartime surge requirements took about 18 months. Certain technologies (computer chips, optics, composite materials, etc.) tend to be the pacing items in the production hierarchy. The problem was not economic. No amount of money could increase the production rate of some of the subcomponents. Certainly, one might build new production facilities and hire additional technicians, but the lead time for capital improvements and training might add four to five years to the production schedule. This surge delay had to do with a weapons system in the US serial production pipeline. If only a prototype or shelved technology were available, going from no production to surge would certainly take considerably longer. 121. Draft Russian Military Doctrine, 2–3. 122. Quoted in Fred Hiatt, “Yeltsin Promises Assertive Russia,” Washington Post,  25 February 1994, 1. 123. Brian Collins, “Russia Fragments Its Airpower,” Air Force Magazine, February 1994, 62–65. 124. More and more Russians use the term near abroad  in reference to the ex-Soviet nations on Russia’s rim.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 528  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 552 --- Chapter 14 Ascendant Realms: Characteristics of Airpower and Space Power Maj Bruce M. DeBlois* At the onset of World War I , the United States  found itself in a position as a major world sea power , arguably second only to Britain . Completion of the Panama Canal  provided evidence of its desire to dominate the Western Hemisphere. The Navy maintained several overseas bases, a for