although the gunship perfected during operations in Vietnam showed promise for the future. The shallowness of the air arm’s interest in its LIC  role may well have stemmed from the fact that the preeminent air weapon for LIC  operations is the helicopter . Since Army  helicopters  satisfied that need, air officers seemed to lose interest. If Air Force  officers showed little interest in the air aspects of LICs , this did not in any case signal declining interest in airpower theory. With the Vietnam  quagmire behind it, the nation welcomed two significant airpower theorists—Col John Boyd  and Col John Warden . Both were far more sophisticated in their reasoning than most of their predecessors. Along with the officer corps as a whole, both were also better educated than those who had gone before them. Taking his cue from Basil H. Liddell Hart  (“think in terms of paralyzing”) and J. F. C. Fuller  (“brain warfare, a shot through the head”), Boyd  conceived of proper strategy as one that disrupted or incapacitated the enemy’s ability to cope by forcing him to operate at a tempo beyond his ability to respond effectively. Success favors the side that can observe, orient, decide, and act (OODA)  sooner than the enemy. Which is to say, one must get inside his “OODA loop ” or decision-making  cycle. In sharp contrast to the fatally flawed “methodical battle ” of the French, with its carefully planned time-phased actions, Boyd ’s thinking required the exercise of initiative at low echelons—opportunistic, fast-breaking, imaginative leadership. He saw any single doctrinal path to victory as predictable and therefore vulnerable. For Boyd , theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 592  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 616 --- issue was not a matter of doctrine , but of doctrines—a whole quiver full of options to be applied in rapid, staccato thrusts. His approach to strategic paralysis  did not entail battering the enemy’s economy but his leadership and its control over the country. In a