rcraft from attacking friendly troops or using friendly aircraft to attack enemy troops and supplies near the battlefield. It did not mean achieving victory from the sky—a proposition that many Army  leaders viewed with thinly veiled scorn. Mitchell ’s public outcries led many Army  officers to reject future proposals for air force  autonomy out of hand. Arnold  remarked that “they seemed to set their mouths tighter, draw more into their shell, and, if anything, take even a narrower point of view of aviation as an offensive power in warfare.” 90 Army  brigadier general Charles E. Kilbourne , chief of the General Staff’s War Plans Division , critiqued Mitchell ’s impact on Army  leadership in harsher terms. In 1934 Kilbourne  remarked that “for many years the General Staff of the Army  has suffered a feeling of disgust amounting at times to nausea over statements publicly made by General William Mitchell  and those who followed his lead.” 91 Undoubtedly, Mitchell  became more radical in his theories in the decade after World War I . Postwar budget  cuts drove the services towards a bitter parochialism as they fought for a dwindling share of the defense dollar. Largely as a consequence, by 1920 Mitchell  was attacking the Navy , and the climactic tests that sank the battleships  in 1921 andTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 106  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 135 --- again in 1923 convinced him he was right. In his vision of the future, the surface fleet  would largely disappear, and the submarine  would take its place as the symbol of maritime strength. Mitchell ’s attacks on the Army , muted at first, accelerated after his court-martial , and he incessantly accused the top generals of conservatism and shortsightedness. In a typically nasty fashion, he commented at one point that “we must relegate armies and navies to a  place in the glass case of a dusty museum, which contains examples of the dinosaur, the mammoth, and the cave bear.” 92 The animosity became mutual. Al