t Army  and Navy  traditionalists from choking off the Air Service , bulldozing it, or holding it down “like a stepchild.” In Mitchell ’s words, “To leave aeronautics as an orphan [was to] strangle it before it reache[d] man’s estate.” 107 Therefore, the only way to save Army aviation , according to Cong. Charles Curry  of California, was to introduce a bill on 28 July 1919, calling for an independent Department of Aeronautics . Curry ’s air-minded proposal failed, but it also initiated a multiyear legislative and political struggle between the Navy  and the Army , and between the Army  and its own Air Corps .108 In 1919–20, for example, no fewer than eight aviation  bills appeared before Congress , all of which sought to emancipate the Air Service  from Army  and Navy  domination, either by creating a separate executive department, as Congressman Curry  wanted, or by creating a Department of National Defense  with three coequal parts. 109FABER 207  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 234 --- Not surprisingly, postwar demobilization and the implacable opposition of the War Department  doomed all eight bills. Nevertheless, the failures of 1919–20 did not sour Air Service “separatists” on the political process. They believed, in the words of Charles Menoher , that “a great majority” of the members of Congress  were “friendly” to the Air Service .110 As a result, air leaders continued to proselytize before congressional committees. (Foulois  alone, for example, testified 75 times before he became leader of the Air Corps !) Senior airmen also thought that congressional, War Department , and Army  boards or commissions could positively define the relationship between military aviation and the older services. If one believes Maj Guido Perera , however, these boards of inquiry were frequently hostile towards the idea of independent airpower . Of the 14 interwar groups that studied the proper employment of airpower prior to 1934, Perera  claimed that only one—the Lam