taly  plunged into the war in 1915, Douhet  was so shocked by his army’s incompetence and unpreparedness that he frequently wrote his superiors, suggesting organizational reform and increased use of the airplane. He filled his diary with angry, sarcastic, and frustrated remarks regarding his superiors and their war strategy. Rejecting the offensively oriented ground strategy of the General Staff, he commented ruefully, “To cast men against concrete is to use them as a useless hammer.” In another entry, he noted the existence of reports that Italian soldiers at the front did not even have rifles. Perhaps, he offered, “if an enemy attacks they could always beg a mule to kick him.” 12 In yet another memo to his superiors, the colonel advocated that a bomber  force drop one hundred tons of explosives on Constantinople each day until the Turkish government agreed to open the Dardanelles to Allied shipping.13 Typically, he even wrote Gen Luigi Cadorna, the Italian commander in chief, about his concerns and was twice reprimanded for his intemperate remarks. Beginning in 1916, Colonel Douhet  started corresponding with several government officials, including Leonida Bissolati, a cabinet minister known to be an airpower advocate. His letters to the minister were especially candid, even for Douhet . In one, he roundly criticized the Italian conduct of the war, noting that “we find ourselves without a reserve, in a crisis of munitions, with all our forces engaged in an offensive already halted, with the rear threatened by old and new enemies, exposed to being attacked at any moment and overcome decisively in the shortest moment.” 14 Unfortunately, a copy of Douhet ’s scathing missive reached General Cadorna , who labeled it “calumnious.” As a result, in September 1916 Douhet  was arrested and court-martialed for “issuing false news . . . divulging information differing from the official communiqués . . . diminishing the prestige and the faith in the country and of disturbing t