rnment—for the next two decades. Because Britain  had remained sheltered behind its impassable moat for centuries, this fear proved worse than it would have been for a country that had no such tradition of invulnerability. The psychological effect  of losing this shield was enormous. As a consequence, the government appointed a well-known general, Jan Smuts  of South Africa , to study the problem. Assisting him in this task was the commanding general of the Royal Flying Corps (RFC) , Lt Gen David Henderson , a strong advocate of bombardment. Smuts  turned in two reports—one, a fairly straightforward plan for a well-organized and capable defensive network centered on London , and the other, a more theoretical treatise. In the latter, Smuts  called for a separate air force that combined the units of the fleet (the Royal Naval Air Service [RNAS] ) and the army (the RFC ) into a single command. In words cited by airmen ever since, Smuts prophesied that “the day may not be far off when aerial operations with their devastation of enemy lands and destruction of industrial and populous centers on a vast scale may become the principal operations of war, to which the older forms of military and naval operations may become secondary and subordinate.” 3 Although officials had talked since the beginning of the war of combining the army and navy air arms into a single unit in the interests of efficiency and standardization, the German air attacks  and the resultant recommendations of the Smuts report served as decisive catalysts. The RAF  was established on 1 April 1918, charged with preventing further German incursions, while retaliating against Germany . Lord Rothermere  assumed the new position of air minister, with Henderson  his deputy. Maj Gen Hugh Trenchard , Henderson ’s subordinate as commanding general of RFC  units in France , became chief of the Air Staff (CAS). The new arrangement proved unsatisfactory, however. By all accounts, Lord Rothermere  was a difficult and e