uty to study and promote airpower. Even in his seventies, he could deliver a spellbinding speech laced with his own peculiar brand of humor and metaphor. At Maxwell , he felt at home. The major died in 1974 at age 80. His wife, Evelyn , who took her own life due to despondency over a long illness, preceded him by seven years. Alexander de Seversky  was the most effective and prolific airpower advocate of his era. His hundreds of articles and lectures reached millions. One must remember that he did not write to influence military leaders (they were a hopeless case); rather, he wrote for the man in the street. Because of his homey, down-to-earth style, he spoke the language that average Americans could understand. His ideas on airpower were not original. Someone else had already articulated virtually everything he proposed. Douhet , Mitchell , Hugh Trenchard , Ira Eaker , even Hap Arnold , hisTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 266  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 293 --- bête noir, had already written of the unique characteristics and capabilities of airpower, its revolutionary nature, and its role in forever changing the face of war. His calls for air superiority , global range, and an industrial-based targeting scheme were not new. De Seversky ’s role was to take these ideas, repackage them, cover them with a modicum of technical credibility, and then sell them to the American people. He was enormously popular, and his publication record was staggering—over one hundred major articles and several hundred lesser ones. Scarcely a month went by during World War II  and the decade after when his articles did not appear in major magazines. Because his target audience comprised average Americans, he wrote for publications such as The American Mercury, Reader’s Digest, The Atlantic, Ladies’ Home Journal,  and Look —representing a huge and diverse readership. Tens of millions of Americans knew of de Seversky , and he enjoyed access to the media and the people that was the envy o