raft designer whose P-35  fighter represented a great stride forward in its day; it proved especially noteworthy for its influence on the mighty “Jug”—the P-47  of World War II . But de Seversky ’s brilliance extended beyond designing aircraft. He was certainly on the right track when he patented a scheme for air-to-air refueling  and formulated big plans for internal tankage to extend the range of fighter  aircraft. To be sure, a patent on air-to-air refueling  is not the same thing as a fully perfected system in actual use after much trial and error. Of interest here is the brush-off he received from Air Corps officials when he proffered these ideas. Airpower theory is not just a matter of defining the various roles and missions  of air weapons. Such theory requires the conceptualization of ways to implement it. De Seversky  saw the need for bomber  escorts  to accompany strategic bombers , which would require long-range capabilities. He turned to increased internal tankage and the notion of air-to-air refueling . At the time, neither possibility may have been an entirely satisfactory solution to the problem, but he was thinking toward a solution, whereas Air Corps  leaders were not. The ultimate solution to the escort  fighter was, of course, the drop tank . Here, too, Air Corps  leaders were so narrowly committed to the mission of fighters  in their fighter-versus- fighter role that they refused to visualize them functionin g as escorts . Long after the need to extend fighter  range was manifest, no less an individual than Carl Spaatz recom-mended against the adoption of drop tanks . CuriousHOLLEY 589  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 613 --- about the seeming blindness on the part of an unquestionably able officer, this writer sought out the staff correspondence on this issue. Sure enough, Spaatz  signed the document, but it was drafted by one of his subordinates—Hoyt Vandenberg . Is it not ironic that the two men who later became the first and second