ble Gorrell ’s plan for bombing  key German war industries. In a treatise entitled “Tactical Application of Military Aeronautics,” he argued that the main value of bombardment would come from “hitting an enemy’s great nerve centers at the very beginning of the war so as to paralyze them to the greatest extent possible.”27 That the war ended before American bombers  had the chance to bomb German soil proved significant. Production deficiencies had prevented the first squadron of American night bombers  from arriving at the front until 9 November 1918. Since manufacturing problems had stymied the dream of defeating Germany  through American airpower , the dream endured intact. Mitchell , Gorrell , and other Air Service  officers could speculate about the probable effect that a bomber offensive  would have had on the outcome of the war and could blame the lack of aircraft as a reason why the offensive never materialized. Such difficulties could be overcome. Air officers now were aware of Gorrell ’s postwar admonition that “money and men could not make an air program over night,” 28 and they would make amends. For Mitchell , the prospects of applying airpower independently, rather than in support of the Army , gradually merged with the notion of an air force  separate from Army  control. In July 1918, he insisted that the chief of the Air Service , rather than the Army ’s General Staff, should direct the Air Service’s GHQ Reserve , the name given to the phantom force of bombers  that never materialized. He based his argument on the need for unity of command , which would allow the Air Service  chief to concentrate all available airpower in a critical area for maximum impact. His plea went unheeded. In June, Pershing ’s chief of staff, Maj Gen James W. McAndrew , admonished air officers who stressed “independent” air operations: “It is therefore directed that these officers be warned against any idea of independence and that they be taught from the beginning that their e