rehensive effort to determine how best to accomplish this mission.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 410  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 435 --- The most obvious institutional arrangement that reflected Army –Air Force  cooperation was the connection between TRADOC  and TAC . One finds the genesis of this dialogue, which emerged into a full-blown partnership, in the desire of Gen Creighton W. Abrams , Army  chief of staff, for close relations with the Air Force , and in a concern that during a period of fiscal austerity, the two services not engage in dysfunctional quarreling that could harm them both. 34 Abrams  directed DePuy  to establish a close working relationship with his counterpart at TAC , Gen Robert J. Dixon ; to ensure that both remained fully engaged in the effort, he enlisted the support of Gen George S. Brown , Air Force  chief of staff, who had served as his deputy for air operations  and commander of Seventh Air Force  in Vietnam .35 The commands held initial meetings in October 1973, and on 1 July 1975 they established a joint office known as the Directorate of Air-Land Forces Application (ALFA) .36 ALFA ’s location at Langley AFB, Virginia , TAC ’s headquarters and a mere 15-minute drive from TRADOC ’s headquarters at Fort Monroe, Virginia , facilitated communication. Officers from both services manned ALFA , whose actions were guided by a joint steering committee headed by TAC ’s deputy chief of staff for plans and TRADOC ’s deputy chief of staff for combat developments. A colonel, whose branch of service alternated annually, directed ALFA  on a day-to-day basis. 37 On 15 July 1976, TAC  and TRADOC  each established an Air-Land Forces Program Office (ALPO)  to convert ALFA ’s recommendations into service-specific programs. 38 During the period 1975–79, ALFA  successfully resolved many of the tactical and procedural issues regarding air- ground interface on a highly lethal battlefield. A TRADOC -US Army  Forces Command (FORSCOM) -TAC  publication add