tside NATO , and seek to produce air doctrines  to cope with those changes. Notes 1. The difference between doctrine and strategy often lends itself to debate. As used in this chapter, strategy refers to a plan of action for the allocation of resources—based upon an anticipated contingency and specifying the simultaneous and sequential orchestration of military objectives—to achieve a political objective. Doctrine  is “what we [the USAF] hold true about aerospace power and the best way to do the job in the Air Force.” Air Force Manual (AFM) 1-1, Basic Aerospace Doctrine of the United States Air Force, vol. 1, March 1992, vii. Thus, since both terms deal with action and “doing the job,” they are used interchangeably throughout this chapter, except when they allude to a specific concept or document (e.g., the strategy of flexible response or NATO tactical air doctrine). 2. This is not to overlook economic, cultural, or even historical explanations of NATO’s choice of strategy. However, this chapter argues that, ultimately, one expresses those reasons in political terms. Furthermore, since this chapter focuses on military strategies, political reasons are of overriding importance. 3. This is especially true in the case of Germany. Largely due to its experiences with a powerful General Staff, the strategy of the postwar German air force lies in civilian hands. Furthermore, the German military embraces that concept and stresses that any NATO military plan must be “directly and significantly shaped by policy considerations.” More importantly, the German constitution prohibits planning for, or conducting, offensive war. Michael E. Thompson, “Political and Military Components of Air Force Doctrine in the Federal Republic of Germany and Their Implications for NATO Defense Policy Analysis” (Santa Monica, Calif.: RAND Graduate School, 1987), 2.MCCRABB 473  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 497 --- 4. Additionally, some people have argued that NATO organizations must u