ould cause over 20,000 casualties in the first week of war. A maximum effort by the French would double those figures. 21 Although British leaders did not seriously believe that war with France  would occur, they were concerned that the capability of their own air force  had fallen so far so quickly. In addition, they realized that such military weakness could have other negative effects. During the Ruhr crisis of 1922, Harold Balfour  stated, “Mere fear of war in quite conceivable circumstances greatly weakens British diplomacy and may put temptation in the way of French statesmen that they would find it hard to resist.” 22 As one might expect, Trenchard encouraged such thinking, but as one observer put it, “Trenchard  exploited the government’s fears but he did not create them.” 23 As a consequence, Parliament  moved toTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 50  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 79 --- expand the RAF  by adding 52 squadrons by 1928, specifically designated for the air defense  of Great Britain . Fiscal realities would prevent the realization of this force, but its prospect caused the RAF  to begin thinking seriously about how best to employ such a sizable air force. Trenchard ’s views on the importance of strategic airpower had solidified since the war, due to several factors: Britain  no longer maintained an army in Flanders  dependent on airpower for its survival; aircraft capabilities had increased; and the RAF  needed a separate mission if it intended to remain a separate service. The possibility of a genuine Continental menace helped to crystallize Trenchard ’s thoughts on that separate mission. One finds commendable his flexibility of mind in shifting so quickly and effectively from one strategic scenario to another. Trenchard  carried three main beliefs with him from the war: air superiority  was an essential prerequisite to military success; airpower  was an inherently offensive weapon; and although its material effects were great, airpower ’s psycho