t that “we must relegate armies and navies to a  place in the glass case of a dusty museum, which contains examples of the dinosaur, the mammoth, and the cave bear.” 92 The animosity became mutual. Although Mitchell  may have repelled many Army  and Navy officers, most airmen gravitated to his message, if not his methodology. 93 The coterie of “believers” who surrounded him during his tenure as assistant chief of the Air Service —Hap Arnold , Carl “Tooey” Spaatz , William Sherman , Herbert Dargue , Robert Olds , Kenneth Walker , Harold Lee George , and Ira C. Eaker —were not only future leaders of the Air Corps  but also future theorists. Together, they refined Mitchell ’s notions and conveyed them throughout the close-knit community of airmen, and they found their audience receptive. Strong ties bonded the small number of aviators—the dangers of flying, even in peacetime, made the Air Service  responsible for almost 50 percent of the Army ’s active duty deaths between 1921 and 1924. 94 Airmen realized as well that advancing in rank was tenuous as long as the Army  controlled promotion lists, given the fact that most Army  leaders viewed the air weapon as an auxiliary feature of a ground force . After Arnold  and Dargue received reprimands in 1926 for sending congressmen proautonomy  literature, most airmen adopted a stoic posture that reflected Mitchell ’s ideas, but they hesitated to speak those thoughts too loudly outside their clan. Air chiefs also absorbed Mitchell ’s notions. Mason Patrick , who initially shunned Mitchell ’s ideas on Air Service autonomy and regarded him as “a spoiled brat,” 95 submitted a study to the War Department  in December 1924 advocating “a united air force” that would place “all of the component air units, and possibly all aeronautical development under one responsible and directing head.” As for its wartime usage, Patrick  asserted that “we should gather our air forces together under one air commander  and strike at the strategic poi