to appear in the official journal of the Royal Air Force  was not published until 1933. 70 The Command of the Air  was never required reading at the RAF Staff College  between the wars, and one historian states flatly that Douhet  had no influence in Britain  prior to World War II .71 The situation in France  was somewhat different. French airmen were followers of aviation developments in Italy , and in 1933 the magazine Les Ailes  published a partial translation of The Command of the Air . French air leaders, specificallyTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 32  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 61 --- Generals Tulasne and Armengaud, were receptive to his ideas. 72 In 1935, Col P. Vauthier  wrote an analysis of Douhet ’s theories titled La Doctrine de Guerre du General Douhet,  which further elucidated the Italian’s theories and disseminated them to a wider audience. In fact, the accounts of Douhet  that began appearing in British and American periodicals about this time likely were based on the French works rather than the original Italian. German military leaders were even more receptive to new ideas than were the French. Because of their failure in the Great War , German military leaders made a point of closely monitoring foreign developments. Although The Command of the Air  was not published in German until 1935, it appears that Hitler  was initially taken with Douhet ’s ideas: he appreciated the terroristic aspects of his air bombardment theory, made evident at the time of the Munich crisis in 1938. Douhet ’s influence did not extend to the Luftwaffe  as a whole, however, and the official doctrine with which it entered the war focused on army cooperation. 73 Douhet  had his earliest and greatest influence in America , but even then it was not great. In 1922 the Italian air attaché wrote about The Command of the Air  in Aviation  magazine, and Billy Mitchell  later admitted that he had met with Douhet during a trip to Europe  in 1922. About that same time— perhaps even