e government parsimony demanded that they get the biggest “bang for the buck” from the few aircraft they had. And why did they prefer daylight operations? Because then-current navigation aids and bombsights were too primitive to supplant a reliance on visual, line-of-sight techniques. While developing the above one-of-a-kind theory, the ACTS Bomber Mafia  acted, in the candid words of Donald Wilson , “on no firmer basis than reasoned logical thinking bolstered by a grasp of the fundamentals of the application of military force and the reactions of human beings.” 136 In other words, they relied on deductive reasoning, analogies, and metaphors to develop their working propositions into a pseudoscientific theory  of strategic bombardment. As already noted, to Wilson and his sympathizers, paralyzing a modern industrial state was relatively easy since it was made up of “interrelated and entirely interdependent elements.” 137 In fact, the better a society organized its industry for peacetime efficiency, the more vulnerable it was to wartime collapse. All an attacker had to do was cut one or more of a society’s “essential arteries.” 138 Or, given that modern states were as sensitive as a precision instrument, all one had to do was strike an opponent’s key economic nodes. Damaging them was comparable to breaking a needed spring or gear in an intricate watch, which would then inevitably stop working, or to pulling a critical playing card from a house of cards, which would then tumble to the ground, or even to breaking a significant strand of a spider’s web, which would then lose its structural integrity and ability to function. 139 In all cases, however, the goal was to avoid using long-range bombers  against minorTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 218  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 245 --- targets. An inviolable principle of ACTS  was that airmen use the bomber  only against vital material targets located deep within hostile territory and that it never serve in harassing oper