ht as releasing weapons  of mass destruction and inviting retaliation in kind. This perspective significantly departed from a major tenet of the Gorbachev  doctrine, which held that nuclear war  will be catastrophic. The new doctrine refined this assumption to might  be catastrophic. The old doctrine  discussed nuclear war  as global in nature— attempting to limit it to specific regions would prove almost impossible. In the new doctrine , however, both concepts were missing, insofar as Russia  refuted its commitment to no first use of nuclear weapons , seeing limited regional nuclear war  as a possibility.106 Doctrinal statements clearly reflect the lessons of the Gulf War . Specifically, the new doctrine  expects Russian commanders to balance troop training in both defensive and offensive operations, hold the country’s vital areas, restore theFELKER 513  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 537 --- status quo along its borders, and eventually rout the enemy. Gorbachev ’s earlier military doctrine  espoused more modest terms of cessation to hostilities. The pre–Gulf War  doctrine specifically addressed partial victory, enemy withdrawal, and restoration of peace. The new doctrine’s  resurrected idea of “total victory” incorporates traditional Soviet thinking that prevailed well into the late 1980s. Most important of all, the new doctrine  stressed the decisive importance of the initial period of war. 107 In Desert Storm , the Russians saw the initial period consisting of air strikes  aimed at disrupting enemy strategic deployments, disorganizing civilian and military C 3I, and collapsing any enemy coalition. The Russians’ new doctrine  specifies the destruction of economic  and military targets  by ACMs  simultaneously or preemptively with electronic warfare .108 Of significance is the Russians’ new belief that ACMs  could accomplish missions once thought possible only by nuclear weapons . To the Russians, superiority in EW  and C 3I are necessary and sufficien