de, “I think it also unfortunate that General Mitchell is not Colonel Mitchell” and to suggest that he be reassigned as the commander of air defenses in the Philippines! Chief of the Air Corps Mason Patrick further observed in 1928 that Mitchell had a highly developed ego, loved the limelight, and thirsted for public attention. Last, the legendary hostility between Mitchell and Benny Foulois was nothing less than class warfare. Mitchell, who was an Army blue blood and cerebral by nature, was the antithesis of Foulois, who was a utilitarian mechanic by temperament. It therefore comes as no surprise that Foulois later portrayed himself as a practical everyman compelled to deal with a skittish fop who was a talker rather than a doer, who merely “sounded” like an expert, and “who couldn’t agree on the color of white paper.” The egotistical Mitchell did have, Foulois grudgingly admitted, a “gift of gab,” but it only helped obscure his lack of practical success in the field. From the standpoint of the Air Corps and its future, what mattered was that Hap Arnold was an admirer of Mitchell. (He was, as Mitchell put it, “one of my boys.”) From the standpoint of ACTS, what mattered was that key members of its faculty—Thomas Milling, William Sherman, Herbert Dargue, Harold Lee George, and others—were equally devoted. At Mitchell’s trial, for example, George tried vainly to testify on his mentor’s behalf, but his interlocutors deliberately restricted him to answering narrow technical questions. See Oscar Westover, memorandum to Maj Gen Charles Menoher, 20 June 1919, AFHRA, file no. 168.7089-3; Foulois, 157–58, 167, 170–71, 224; Patrick, 86; and Flint O. DuPre, Hap Arnold: Architect of American Air Power  (New York: Macmillan Co., 1972), 41, 44–45. 15. The airfields were located in the cities of Norfolk and Montgomery, respectively. In 1922 the Air Service named Maxwell Field after 2d Lt William G. Maxwell of Atmore, Alabama, who died in the Philippines while assigned to the 3d A