ar while the Soviet Union  had not, but also we were fortunate in having friendly neighbors. The Soviets, on the other hand, had to build a large army  to protect their vulnerable and extensive borders. Like Douhet , Mitchell , and Alfred Thayer Mahan , de Seversky  clearly saw the significance of geopolitical factors and wrote for the peculiar American situation. 74 In his view, airpower—especially if armed with nuclear weapons —seemed the only sane path to provide the world a “Pax Democratica.” 75 This was a variation of a theme that de Seversky  had repeated for years: airpower and technology  were related in an unusually close and symbiotic fashion. To a far greater degree than surface forces , airpower depended on a strong and vibrant scientific and industrial base. America  possessed such a base; the Soviet Union  did not. Moreover, when de Seversky  contemplated the future of space—which he considered merely an extension of terrestrial airpower—he became even more convinced of America ’s potential dominance. Like most people at the time, de Seversky  was surprised by the North Korean invasion in June 1950. He immediately rejected arguments for American involvement, believing it would play into Soviet hands. Fighting a peripheral war against Soviet proxies would slowly bleed the United States white and drain it of its resources. 76 Significantly, his secondMEILINGER 261  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 288 --- book, Air Power: Key to Survival , published soon after the outbreak of the war, prophesied that Korea  would be a mistake for America  and would fester inconclusively for years. According to de Seversky , the Book of the Month Club wanted to publish his new work as its main selection under the title Peace through Air Power  but was displeased with his comments regarding the Korean War . The club’s contacts with military and political leaders in Washington  assured it that the Korean police action was a minor distraction that would be over qui