the Japanese occupation forces, resisted the return of the French and finally took to the hills to wage a bloody protracted revolutionary war . Unable to cope with the Vietminh , the French gave up the attempt after a major defeat at Dien Bien Phu  in 1954. Left in the wake of the French disaster was a divided Vietnam —the northern half controlled by the victorious Vietminh  and the southern half a rump state created from those areas of less pervasive Vietminh  influence. The Vietminh  would soon turn their attention to uniting all of Vietnam . The Unofficial Response With a significant portion of Asia  embroiled in Communist-backed protracted revolutionary wars  during the late 1940s and much of the 1950s, one would have expected a significant intellectual response from US airmen. However, the interests of the US military largely emphasized other areas and other concerns. US airmen focused on organizational independence from the US Army  and on missions that best justified independence (i.e., strategic bombing  and, to a lesser extent, deep interdiction ). Further, airmen were particularly enamored with nuclear weapons  that promised to bring the concepts of strategic bombing  to fruition. The United States  soon became involved in the Korean conflict , which, although fought with frustrating limitations, was a conventional war . Korea , however, became a sideshow for the US military. The “real” threat remained in Europe , where the Soviets faced the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)  with powerful forces and a threatening attitude. Nor was there much room for thinking about protracted revolutionary warfare  in the years following the Korean conflict . Europe  remained the focal point. Military budget cutting by the Eisenhower  administration played directly into the hands of people who believed that “atomic airpower” couldDREW 327  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 353 --- deter all forms of warfare and, if deterrence  failed, could quickly defeat