rship that had little understanding of airpower and its capabilities. In the interwar period, the French produced few original airpower  theorists, and the senior military leadership at first reluctantly listened to the airpower theories  developed in France  and later repudiated them. At the end of World War I , the French air service was the second largest air force in the world: 90,000 men and over thirty-seven hundred aircraft in service on all fronts. 1 During the war, the French aircraft industry  and aircraft engine industry led the world in production and technical efficiency. By 1918 the French had produced the world’s first supercharged engine as well as the Spad VII  and Spad XIII fighters and the Breguet XIV  bomber—the equal of their German counterparts. By the last year of the war, the French air force  had developed into a superb tactical unit. In 1918 the primary mission of the French air service was the support of army ground troops  by reconnaissance , artillery spotting , close air support , and interdiction  attacks. The air service successfully provided close air support  to French and US offensives from June to November 1918. At this time, the primary targets for French airmen included German troop reserves, depots, airfields, and rail yards close to the front. 2 During the last three months of the war, the French attempted a strategic air campaign  by interdicting rail shipments of iron ore in the Briey Basin . This campaign had little effect, considering the effort put into it; indeed, the French high command judged it a failure.3 Despite the premier position of the French air force  in the aftermath of World War I , the French put little effort into developing and revising airpower doctrine  for the force. A committee of 16 officers wrote the postwar French army operational regulation— Instruction provisoire sur l’emploi tactique des grandes unités  (1921). Only one of these officers—Gen Bertrand Pujo  (later chief of staff of the air force)