Douhet  also proposed that aerochemical  bombs be employed with the high explosives, thinking they would be especially effective against urban targets. Gen Nicholas N. Golovine  noted, however, that based on wartime experience, one needed 25 grams of poison gas to “put out of action” one square meter. London, for example, would have required 5,750 tons of poison material “for an effective gassing.” 49 Adding to the tonnage of high explosives noted above, including an appropriate number of escort aircraft , and assuming some attrition of the striking force, an attack on London of the destructive magnitude envisioned by Douhet would have required nearly 20,000 aircraft. Yet, “The War of 19—” lasts only 36 hours because more than two dozen of the major cities in France  and Belgium  have been reduced to ashes—and by only fifteen hundred aircraft using bombs of a mere 50 kilograms, a size so small as to be virtually useless. Although repeatedly claiming that his methods were scientific and mathematically precise, it is nonetheless true that for a trained engineer, Douhet ’s mathematical and technical gaffes—as well as his sophomoric attempts to estimate bomb damage “scientifically”—are baffling. Where is the empirical evidence supporting his assertions regarding the effectiveness of high explosives against reinforced structures? He had none. One gains little comfort from realizing he was not alone in these errors. 50 Unfortunately, this attempt to imbue airpower with a false “scientism” has never been fully overcome. Airpower theorists seem to have a peculiarTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 22  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 51 --- penchant for devising technological solutions for what are often very human problems. To make matters worse, Douhet  then stated breezily that in order to achieve optimal bomb dispersion, crews should be trained to “scatter their bombs” in a “uniform fashion.” 51 Nothing more clearly exposes a key flaw in Douhet ’s theories. He was out of touc