rally shifting committed forces. 63 Gone was the single focus on the first battle. Instead, the manual introduced the concept of an operational level of war that involved the planning and conduct of campaigns, defined as “sustained operations designed to defeat an enemy force in a specified space and time with simultaneous and sequential battles” (emphasis added). 64 Throughout the manual, one found allusions to corps, divisions, brigades, and battalions working together to accomplish the mission. Finally, the principles of war reappeared, albeit in an appendix and apparently subordinated to AirLand Battle ’s four “basic tenets of initiative, depth, agility, and synchronization”  (emphasis in original). 65 The tenet of depth led to the concept of “deep battle ,” particularly significant for air-ground operations , for it clearly signaled the Army ’s realization of the need to delay or disrupt (i.e., interdict) Soviet second-echelon formations before they made contact with friendly troops. In one sense, however, AirLand Battle  remained an anomaly. Whereas the 1976 edition of FM 100-5 had contained a specific chapter focused on the dynamics of air-ground operations , the 1982 manual limited its treatment of “joint operations ” to a series of wiring diagrams and an explanation of the various responsibilities of unified and specified commands, joint task forces , and service component headquarters. In short, the Active Defense  embodied a much greater elaboration of AirLand Battle  than did the original version of AirLand Battle . This changed in 1986, when the Army  published a new edition of FM 100-5, which reaffirmed the doctrinal thrust of AirLand Battle  but updated and expanded it, based on the lessons learned in classrooms, war games , and field exercises. 66 This edition paid much more explicit attention to the conduct of campaigns and major operations. Of particular note for the conduct of air-ground operations  was the statement that operational level command