licized passages in the above quotation. First, even if Warden ’s analysis of the enemy system is correct, his “synthesized” rule of targeting leadership  does not necessarily follow. Although his analogy with the human brain is seductive, the center ring of leadership is not always the most important target. Other rings (or linkages between rings) may, and often do, offer more lucrative COGs . Warden  would not disagree with this assessment but would insist that oneFADOK 377  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 402 --- must select outer-ring targets so as to influence the leadership’s cost-benefit calculus. But doing so assumes that this calculus remains relevant to the defeat of the enemy, which may or may not be true. The leadership may decide one thing—the population or armed forces another. What matters most—the true COG —may be what matters to the society as a whole, not just to its leadership. Second, despite Napoléon ’s observation that the moral is to the physical as three is to one, Warden  focuses exclusively on the physical aspects of war. He justifies this by contending that one can mathematically represent enemy combat effectiveness by the equation “combat effectiveness = physical strength x moral strength.” 60 Using this formula, one can theoretically eliminate the fighting power of an opponent through exclusive attack upon the physical component of that power. If one drives the physical variable to zero, the moral variable can remain at 100 percent, yet combat effectiveness remains zero. Additionally, Warden  notes that destroying physical targets is easier than destroying the enemy’s moral will to resist . He explains that “the physical is conceptually knowable. So theoretically, if I knew everything about the enemy, I could drive the physical side of the equation to zero. Morale, I know almost nothing about.” 61 Practically, however, driving the physical side to zero (i.e., annihilating the enemy system) is, to borrow Warden ’s own words cit