straint that limited plutonium supplies had previously placed on the expansion of theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 310  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 336 --- superpowers’ nuclear arsenals, since thermonuclear weapons required far less fissile material than atomic bombs, relative to their destructive power. 12. It is theoretically possible to build as large an H-bomb as one wishes, so the incentives to develop a still more powerful generation of weapons have been limited. The “neutron bomb” was a tactical thermonuclear weapon designed to have enhanced radiation and reduced blast (ERRB) effects in order to inflict destruction on enemy military forces while minimizing the operational problems posed for friendly forces as a result of tree and building blowdown and the destruction of territory. See Sam Cohen, The Truth about the Neutron Bomb  (New York: Morrow, 1983). Earth-penetrating warheads were developed in order to attack deeply buried bunkers and other targets. During the 1980s, scientists devoted much effort to developing “third generation” nuclear weapons in the form of H-bomb-pumped X-ray lasers as part of the US Strategic Defense Initiative, but this technology failed to live up to its advocates’ promises. See William J. Broad, Teller’s War  (New York: Simon & Schuster, 1992). 13. Test missiles carry range safety packages to permit their self- destruction in flight, but this has never been a popular feature for operational missiles due to their owners’ fears that an enemy might be able to trigger the devices. 14. The United States also planned at one time to base Polaris SLBMs on surface vessels, included in the abortive multinational NATO Multilateral Force (MLF), but surface ships obviously lacked much of the submarine’s invulnerability to preemptive attack, especially after the advent of satellite reconnaissance. 15. Although the Trident D-5 is also less accurate than its land-based contemporaries, it is accurate enough for use against hardened targets p