ork: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1925), xii. 2. M. J. Armitage and R. A. Mason, Air Power in the Nuclear Age (Urbana, Ill.: University of Illinois Press, 1983), 2. 3. When the term airpower  is used in this book, it refers not only to terrestrial assets, but space assets as well. The term aerospace,  intended explicitly to include both regimes, is inelegant and has never achieved universal acceptance. 4. The first edition, Makers of Modern Strategy: Military Thought from Machiavelli to Hitler,  was edited by Edward Mead Earle and published by Princeton University Press in 1943. The modern edition, Makers of Modern Strategy: From Machiavelli to the Nuclear Age, containing new essays but covering largely the same people, was edited by Peter Paret and published by Princeton in 1986. 5. Smith’s controversial dissertation from Columbia University was published as The Air Force Plans for Peace, 1943–1945  (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins Press, 1970). 6. Predictably, the Air Force responded with technology—developing the A-10 ground attack aircraft. 7. Carl H. Builder,  The Icarus Syndrome: The Role of Air Power Theory in the Evolution and Fate of the U.S. Air Force  (New Brunswick, N.J.: Transaction Publishers, 1994). xxx  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 29 --- Chapter 1 Giulio Douhet and the Origins of Airpower Theory Col Phillip S. Meilinger Gen Giulio Douhet  of Italy  was among the first people to think deeply and write cogently about airpower and its role in war, methodically and systematically elevating an idea to a level of abstraction that could be considered a theory. Many of his ideas and predictions were wrong, but echoes of his basic concepts are still heard more than 60 years after his death. Indeed, the overwhelming victory of the coalition  in the Persian Gulf War in 1991 is an example of what Douhet predicted airpower could accomplish. Specifically, his formula for victory—gaining command of the air, neutralizing an enemy’s strategic “vital centers ,” and ma