efs regarding the nature of modern war and the inherent characteristics of the airplane led Douhet  to a theory of war based on the dominance of airpower. His most fundamental precept 25 was that an air force must achieve command of the air—air supremacy in today’s parlance. 26 Without it, land and sea operations—even air operations — were doomed. Moreover, a country that lost control of its airspace had to endure whatever air attacks an enemy chose to carry out. Command of the air meant victory. Because predicting the specific time and place of an air attack was virtually impossible, Douhet  saw little chance of an air battle occurring. He reasoned that a stronger air force would be foolish to seek out its weaker enemy in the air. Rather, it should carry out the more lucrative task of bombing the enemy’s airfields and aircraft industry —“destroying the eggs in their nest.” The weaker force also had no incentive to seek an air engagement that would likely lead to its destruction. The only hope for the weaker side lay in striking even more violently at an enemy’s homeland. Douhet  thus envisioned a rather peculiar scenario in which opposing air forces studiously ignored each other while flying past to destroy the other’s airfields and factories—something akin to “mutual assured destruction ” without nuclear weapons . He realized, however, that achieving aerial dominance was not an end in itself but an enabler that allowed airpower to conduct its primary task of reducing an enemy’s will  and capability to wage war.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 10  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 39 --- The objective of war had always been to impose one’s will on the enemy by breaking the latter’s will  to resist. This, in fact, happened to Germany , Austria , and Russia  in the Great War —their armies were still largely intact in the fall of 1918, but the will of these nations to continue the fight had dissolved. In Douhet ’s view, airpower could break a people’s will by destroying o