ary accomplishment during his first term as air minister was the creation of Plan I —France’s first program for a comprehensive aerial rearmament. Although Cot enthusiastically believed in the primacy of strategic bombing , Plan I  featured almost equal numbers of new bombers  (474), fighters  (480), and reconnaissance  planes (411).15 At this time, the French aviation industry  comprised numerous small companies with little capital and largely unmechanized production methods. In an attempt to create a modern aviation industry  to match Germany ’s, Cot  argued for the nationalization and reorganization of the industry. In 1936 the government consolidated small companies into larger corporations, initially resulting in confusion and a drop in production but paying off in higher production levels of more modern aircraft on the eve of World War II . Political conservatives strongly criticized Cot  for nationalizing the industry, but air force officers supported his action; they understood that he was motivated not by politics but a desire to modernize the air force . During Cot ’s second term as air minister (1936–38), he initiated several fundamental reforms of air doctrine  and organization. Cot  and senior air force generals Victor Demain and Joseph Vuillemin  (air force chief of staff from 1938 to 1940) argued that “the air force  must be capable of independent operations, of operations in coordination with the army  and navy , and of air defense  of the national territory.”16 To further this vision, Cot  ordered major organizational reforms in September 1936. Instead of being divided into territorial areas and subordinated to the regional army commanders, the air force  comprised three tactical commands. France’s bomber force was I Air Corps , composed of nine bomber wings and nine reconnaissance wings. All the fighters—eight wings—were in II Air Corps , under a single command. And 26 groups were allocated to the army support mission under army  command. 17 The tw