ve military strategy. Soviet operational art , which encompasses the operational-level commander’s sphere of actions, had become focused on speed, mass, shock, and firepower of preeminent ground forces , with other services in a supporting role. The success of the coalitionTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 502  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 526 --- air operation  in the Gulf War  caused Soviet  military theorists  to reassess their old concept of operational art . Airpower’s Role.  One of the first assessments appearing in the Soviet press addressed airpower’s ascendancy. The Soviets noted that the priority of actions of the United States  (and possibly theirs, by inference) had changed. Tass  military analyst Vladimir Chernyshev  commented, “The ‘classic’ form of combat gave the main role to land forces  in military actions, and the air force supports them. Here [the Gulf War ] everything has been different: I would say the basic blows of strategic, decisive significance were struck by the Air Forces.” 62 The Soviets saw the Gulf War  as a repudiation of Giulio Douhet ’s ideas about airpower. 63 They did not feel that the Gulf War  justified building a force structure that emphasized strategic bombardment ; however, they felt they needed parity in ground-air-space weapons to present a credible deterrent to a potential threat. 64 Although the Soviets saw success in war as a joint effort of all the services, General Maliukov  found Douhet ’s ideas of attacks against industrial and population centers relevant to the Gulf War ’s outcome. 65 He viewed these strikes as part of the psychological warfare  to wear down the Iraqi people. In the May 1991 issue of Voennaia mysl  (Military Thought),  he said that the initial period of war confirmed the increased role of aviation to combat power. The Gulf War  confirmed the impact of aviation on tactical surprise  and its execution. More importantly, he said that the defensive cast of Soviet military doctrine  implied an air capa