val vessels, fuel storage plants, power grids, munitions and aircraft factories, and assorted types of refineries. 81 Last, ACB-31’s definition of air-based coastal defense  was also premeditatedly vague. Yes, it included protecting shipping in coastal zones, guarding military and civilian facilities, preventing invasion, and ensuring the security of vital military and commercial coastal areas. However, the most effective way that land-based aviation  could accomplish these objectives was to conduct unrestricted counterair operations  against distant installations or to thwart the creation and use of staging areas for a continental attack. In either case, the need for long-range aircraft became “a matter of prime importance.”82 In the case of ACB-35, Employment of Aircraft in Defense of the Continental United States,  the Air Corps  classified it Secret and did not release it until 7 May 1939, even though ACB  had finished the original version in late 1935.83 Nevertheless, the report passed from one influential person to another, especially between those individuals interested in providing the newly minted GHQ Air Force  a shadow doctrine. As a result, ACB-35 augmented the doctrinal vocabulary provided by its predecessor. Both reports popularized the concept of a strategic strike force dedicated to destroying a spectrum of targets in the name of coastal-continental defense. ACB-35, however, made an even bigger claim—that the strategic bomber  was the ideal instrument of hemispheric defense and beyond. The report noted that “the possibility of applying military force against the vital structure of a nation directlyTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 202  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 229 --- and immediately upon the outbreak of hostilities, is a most important and far reaching development.” 84 In other words, the role of airpower was not just supplementary—to attack hostile forces beyond the reach of the Army  or Navy —but to strike directly against an enemy nation! Its