t so organized up to 1937. From 1918 forward, it was an article of faith in the US Navy  that that decision had been a mistake and proof that an independent air force  would be bad for the United States . Without arguing the virtues of the Spitfire , Fighter Command , Taranto , and victory over the Bismarck  and the U-boats , it is clear that the stout opposition to the idea in the US Navy  had its origins long before the RAF  could possibly have had the deadly effects attributed to it. To cite one example, in testifying to the General Board of the Navy  on 23 August 1918, Commander H. C. Dinger  asserted, “Personally, I don’t see how there could be any argument. They [the British] must have both Naval and Army aviation . Of course these are only my personal views. The amalgamation in England  seems to have had a very bad effect.” 42METS 125  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 154 --- In the wake of the commissioning of the Langley  (CV-1) in the early 1920s, articles in Proceedings,  as well as Naval War College  papers and lectures, paid increasing attention to the implications of aviation. 43 This increased sharply after the great ships Saratoga  (CV-3) and Lexington  (CV-2) came on-line late in 1927. No doubt, Navy  people endlessly fought and refought the Battle of Jutland  on the game boards at Newport and in the pages of Proceedings,  but they also wrote many articles on aviation as well. 44 Proper Naval Objectives in War Even in the articles on aviation, usually the climax came in a big gun duel. Analogous to the Army  experience on the western front , the most strident demand for a capability to command the air came from the most committed surface gunners. It became clear to battleship  captains that aerial spotting  so enhanced the power of the big gun that any admiral who lost that spotting  capability found himself at a huge disadvantage. 45 The corollary to that principle, as on the western front , was that one had to make every effort to protec