ure. A standard response of military leaders is to assume away the problems involved in this type of warfare, believing that preparation for general war will ensure automatic coverage of “lesser” forms of war. This was certainly the attitude in the US Air Force. Despite the hint of things to come, represented by guerrilla insurgencies in the Philippines, Malaysia, and French Indochina during the decade following World War II, airmen focused on the major nuclear threat emanating from the Soviet Union. This absorption was so pronounced that not even the Korean War, although largely conventional, could shake the belief that such conflicts were peripheral, aberrant, or both. The lack of interest generated in the subject of airpower in LIC is illustrated by the fact that during the entire decade of the xxii  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 21 --- 1950s, despite the four conflicts noted above, only two articles on the subject appeared in the Air Force’s professional journal, the Air University Quarterly Review . Quite surprisingly, this institutional reluctance to engage with the subject of airpower in LIC continued, even as the country found itself ever more deeply involved in Vietnam during the 1960s. Not until 1964 did official doctrine manuals seriously discuss the subject—and then it received a scant two pages. As the war struggled into the 1970s, this disregard increased rather than decreased. Never a popular topic, LIC became even more disdained as the Vietnam War shuddered to its unhappy conclusion. The role of airpower in LIC carried with it an odor of defeat—not a scent of victory. On the other hand, although the disaster of Vietnam had many such negative outcomes, one of the positive aspects was a resurgence of strategic thinking within the services. Realizing that war was too important to be left to scholars, the “generals” began to reassert themselves. In the American Air Force, this trend began with John Boyd, a semilegendary cult figure in the fi