ccuracy of the OODA  process. Although the information revolution  may not affect the process  of decision making  as described by Boyd , it threatens to fundamentally alter the form  of the enemy system as depicted by Warden ’s five-rings model . As Arquilla  andTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 386  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 411 --- Ronfeldt  astutely observe, there are both technological and organizational dimensions to this new revolution. 89 In his 1982 best-seller, Megatrends,  John Naisbitt  accurately forecasts organizational trends that accompany the shift from an industrial society to an information society. Centralization gives way to decentralization, and networks replace hierarchies. 90 As they are currently unfolding in the business community, these trends produce what Naisbitt  calls “a vertical to horizontal power shift.” 91 As strategic decision making  and control become decentralized, lateral cooperation between semiautonomous agents and agencies becomes more vital to effective system operation than top-down command. However, as Alvin Toffler  speculates, of the “big three” organizations—economic, political, and military—the military will likely be the last to undergo a vertical-to-horizontal power shift due to its particular affinity for hierarchical institutions. Still, recent organizational adjustments within the US military ushered in by “total quality management ” do mirror changes in the business world and suggest that, even if the military is the last to change, change will indeed occur. If a worldwide military power shift does occur, it will make the leadership bull’s-eye of John Warden ’s five rings  increasingly less relevant to system operation. On the other hand, a vertical-to-horizontal power shift, with its emphasis on “distributed problem-solving,” 92 will add a great deal of credence to John Boyd ’s notion of noncooperative COGs . Control warfare based on lateral cooperation targeting may indeed replace control warfare  based on