—with the notable exception of Air Corps chief Benjamin Foulois—to work “within the system” to secure their goal. While this was certainly true of many airmen, Maj Gen Frank Andrews, the commander of GHQ Air Force, and his chief of staff Col Hugh Knerr sometimes resorted to controversial publicity when they thought it would further the cause of an independent air force. 94. Mitchell, Winged Defense,  220. See also Ronald Schaffer, Wings of Judgment: American Bombing in World War II  (New York: Oxford University Press, 1985), 17–18. 95. Quoted in Parton, 152. 96. Maj Gen Mason Patrick, memorandum to the War Department adjutant general, subject: Reorganization of the Air Forces for National Defense, 19 December 1924, Mitchell Papers, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. 97. Maj Gen Clayton Bissell, transcript of oral history interview by Brig Gen George W. Goddard, 22 February 1966, 8–10, AFHRA, file K239.0512-987; and Hurley, 128.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 114  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 143 --- Chapter 4 The Influence of Aviation on the Evolution of American Naval Thought Dr. David R. Mets The cast of mind of the officer corps of the US Navy  is sometimes deemed Neanderthal, sometimes progressive, and, less often, radical. This chapter revisits the history of recent naval theory  and doctrine  to evaluate this perception and the impact of the coming of aviation on the general attitudes of the naval profession in America  from the beginning of flight to the end of World War II . Previous chapters have all dealt with the impact of World War I  on the theory of airpower, usually in a Continental war context. They went on to study its development in the interwar period. This chapter briefly looks at naval thought at the onset of aviation, which serves as a baseline. It continues with changes brought on by World War I and interwar evolution, and thence to the impact of World War II on the Navy ’s outlook.1 In large part, naval air theory  was formed in the deca