pon the ACB ’s recommendations, but the level of success they experienced against the Navy  in the mid- to late-1930s might not have occurred without a powerful new ally—Franklin D. Roosevelt .88 FDR ’s support for long-range aviation , as a defensive and offensive tool, grew out of mounting international pressures and successful Air Corps  indoctrination, as promoted by ACB-31 and ACB-35. The international pressures includedFABER 203  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 230 --- the expiration of the Washington Treaty , the collapse of the Geneva Disarmament Conference  of 1933, growing German rearmament , Japan ’s incursion into Manchuria , and the Anglo-Italian imbroglio over Ethiopia . Roosevelt  concluded from these developments that he needed long-range military aviation  to project power, deter aggression, and defend US territory. Thus, on the eve of World War II , the Air Corps  had America ’s first true long-range bomber—the B-17 ; a semiautonomous striking force—GHQ Air Force ; and both new and expropriated missions. 89 In other words, the Air Corps  of the late 1930s had the means, the organization, and the conceptual “language” needed for an overlapping mission with the Navy . It had survived and codified itself not only by spreading air-mindedness  but also by demonstrating its versatility in selected roles and missions . However, the air arm had yet a third part to its ad hoc strategy. The Army and Its Air Corps: Political Maneuvering and Legislative Combat A political and legislative assault by the Air Corps  against its parent service was a third way it sought to survive and then realize its full potential in the interwar years. Initially, the assault required airmen to complain loudly and often. If one is to believe the air enthusiasts of the interwar years, whether civilian or military, Army  traditionalists sought to thwart them at every turn. Col Benjamin Foulois , for example, complained to the Morrow Board  in 1925 that a fair, just, will