g document via the back door. With General Arnold ’s approval, George  set about doing just that. However, because he needed a working group to start on the project immediately, George  recruited former colleagues from ACTS —bomber enthusiasts Lt Col Ken Walker , Maj Haywood Hansell , and Maj Laurence Kuter . From 3 to 12 August 1941, these men, with the assistance of other airmen once associated with the Tactical  School, wrote AWPD-1 , the air annex to the requested FDR  plan. However, instead of just providing statistical tables that listed the Air Corps ’s future wants and needs, the four members of the working group turned AWPD-1  into a blueprint for strategic air warfare  in Europe . The plan grudgingly agreed to provide hemispheric defense, if necessary;  it unhappily agreed to support a future cross-channel invasion, if necessary;  but its true aim was to conduct a strategic air campaign  against Germany , based on the concepts of employment first developed by the Bomber Mafia  at ACTS  in the 1930s. George , Walker , Hansell , and Kuter  spent nine long days fashioning AWPD-1 , but as Hansell  would later point out, the plan was seven years in the making. It called for an initial consignment of 6,860 bombers  to attack 154 key targets (124 of them centered on electricity, oil, and transportation). 154 With the necessary equipment, the plan’s writers argued, Germany would collapse in six months.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 224  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 251 --- To paraphrase Hap Arnold , here was airpower you could put your hands around; here was the foundation for a myriad of air plans  that followed in its wake. Yes, subsequent plans like AWPD-42  changed targeting  priorities and made other adjustments, but the basic intellectual scaffolding provided by AWPD-1  remained in place throughout the air war . That scaffolding, coupled with the interwar success of the Air Corps in a broader four-part strategy, ensured that the Army Air Forces  would bec