loiting both realms, people do not need it to access them. In contrast, people have needed high technology  to provide air and space access from the outset. Investment in high-technology R&D  is essential to the progress of both airpower and space power . More so than on land or at sea, where technology  is a force multiplier  and numbers are often the determinant, in air and in space, technology  is not just the force multiplier  but the force itself. In the future, the role of humans will remain essential, but their primary value will lie in the preparation and orchestration of assets before the fight—not in a fight that will occur at speeds beyond human comprehension. Exposure of expensive technological assets may distinguish airpower and space power  in terms of environmental characteristics (see below). Insofar as both airpower and space power  heavily depend on advanced technology  for access and manipulation of air and space, technology dependence  is a characteristic similarity  of airpower and space power .DEBLOIS 543  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 567 --- Command and Control Parceling out ground or sea forces may seem realistic—for example, one cannot immediately move the Pacific Fleet  to support an Atlantic crisis. Air and space forces do not have such a constraint on speed of response: they can affect any part of the battle space within much shorter time spans. Experience dictates that optimum use of air forces requires centralized C 2 to orchestrate limited resources. The same ubiquity of capability driving high demand on a limited supply of assets exists for space forces. Additionally, the current space architecture of predominantly unmanned space assets efficiently linked to centralized ground control stations strongly suggests that centralized C2 is the most prudent option. Although current Air Force doctrine  calls for it, 34 centralized space C 2 simply doesn’t exist. Gen Charles A. Horner , USAF, Retired, former commander in chief (C