arrested and court-martialed for “issuing false news . . . divulging information differing from the official communiqués . . . diminishing the prestige and the faith in the country and of disturbing the public tranquillity.” 15 He did not deny writing the letter to Bissolati  but insisted he was motivated strictly by love of country and a desire to see Italy win the war. But his reputation as an agitator had precededMEILINGER 5  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 34 --- him, and the court found him guilty. Douhet  was sentenced to a year in jail at the fortress of Fenestrelle, beginning his incarceration on 15 October. One can only speculate on whether Douhet  was actually relieved to have finally brought matters to a head. In a mood that echoes of resignation, mingled with frustration, he confided in his diary, “They [the government] can no longer say that they were not warned.” 16 Colonel Douhet  continued to write about airpower from his cell, finishing not only a novel on air warfare but suggesting in a letter to the war minister that a great interallied air fleet be created. He envisioned a fleet of 20,000 airplanes, mostly provided by the United States , whose role would be to gain command of the air and carry out a decisive air attack on the enemy.17 Meanwhile, the fortunes of the Italian army continued to plummet, culminating in the disaster of Caporetto in October 1917, when the Italians lost three hundred thousand men. Released from prison that same month, Douhet  returned to duty, and, because calamity breeds change, he soon became central director of aviation at the General Air Commissariat, where he worked to strengthen Italy ’s air  arm. He also continued his close relationship with Caproni , and it is likely the two had a role in determining the force structure and philosophy of the new American Air Service . Shortly after entering the war in April 1917, the United States sent a mission to Europe headed by Col Raynal Bolling to decide which ai