anced from secondary to strategic importance. General of the Army N. Klokotov  noted that “Iraq  made a strategic error. Its forces were prepared for a battle in which the means of ‘strike’ were preeminent. To civilized states this is a thing of the past. Now not only means of strike but also means of security such as reconnaissance , radio-electronic warfare , means of guidance, and effective defense are of prime importance. Therefore Iraq ’s strike means were unprotected.” 59 The Soviets said that the conduct of the air operation represented the most important factor in changing the relevance of the initial period. Lt Gen A. E. Maliukov , then chief of staff of the Soviet air force , said that the Gulf War confirmed the impact of aviation on tactical surprise  and its execution. Future war  required an air capability to repel initial attacks and then mount its own air offensive . The key, as the Soviets defined the Gulf War , lay in protecting the control of air forces and training air commanders  to act independently.60 Of all the Soviet statements made about the Gulf War , Lt Gen A. I. Yevseyev ’s proclamation for Soviet doctrine  had no precedent. In contrast to past wars, he noted that “the main content of the initial period can be the delivery by the belligerents of nuclear strikes or strikes with conventional means of destruction . . . for achieving the war’s main objectives.” 61 In the past, Soviet military  theorists believed that only nuclear weapons  achieved a war’s main objective in the initial period. To Soviet military theorists , the coalition had achieved nuclear effects in the initial period by using air-delivered, high-tech conventional weapons . Operational Art Operational art  describes how Soviet forces are formed, organized, and employed to achieve military strategy. Soviet operational art , which encompasses the operational-level commander’s sphere of actions, had become focused on speed, mass, shock, and firepower of preeminent ground force