ars” and somewhat later “protracted revolutionary wars,” insurgencies  are revolutionary civil wars that differ fundamentally from conventional warfare  in at least five ways. The first difference is time. Classically based insurgencies  are designed to be protracted affairs. In the hands of an insurgent battling an entrenched government, time becomes a weapon. The longer the insurgency  remains in being, the more it discredits the government trying to stamp it out. The longer the insurgency  remains active, the less the government appears to be in control of its own destiny: “Time is the condition to be won to defeat the enemy. In military affairs time is of prime importance. Time ranks first among the three factors necessary for victory, coming before terrain and support of the people. Only with time can we defeat the enemy.” 6 In contrast, for at least the past two hundred years, the desire to make wars shorter and victory more decisive has driven the development of conventional warfare  in the Western world. Much of the technology  and virtually all of the innovations in strategy and tactics had as their aim more decisiveness on the battlefield and thus wars of much shorter duration and less cost. The development of strategic bombardment theory  is a case in point. The second fundamental difference has to do with the remarkable “duality” of classical insurgent strategy . Maoist-based insurgencies  have a dual focus—one military and one civilian. On the civilian side, the object is to infiltrate the entire population with insurgent sympathizers who can undermine the government and spread disaffection. Further, they can aid the military side of the insurgency  by gatheringDREW 323  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 349 --- intelligence , recruiting guerrilla  fighters, obtaining needed supplies, and providing funds. On the military side, the insurgent objective is to harass government forces; demonstrate the government’s inability to cope with insurgent f