HE PATHS OF HEAVEN 482  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 506 --- The second issue involves logistics. Historically, NATO has relied on the doctrine of national logistics, which requires each country to supply its own forces. Lacking complete standardization and interoperability, this doctrine would create a nightmare of logistics in a multinational force. The third issue entails command arrangements. Traditionally, NATO senior commands have either been allocated to a particular country (e.g., SACEUR has always been a US general) or rotated on a rigid schedule. No one knows whether this practice will suffice in multinational forces. See David Greenwood, “Refashioning NATO’s Defences,” NATO Review  38 (December 1990): 2–8. 89. The immediate reaction force (IRF) is an augmented AMF of about five thousand troops able to deploy anywhere within Europe within 72 hours. The Allied Command Europe Rapid Reaction Corps (ARRC) consists of upwards of one hundred thousand multinational troops deployable within six to 10 days. See David M. Abshire, Richard R. Burt, and R. James Woolsey, The Atlantic Alliance Transformed  (Washington, D.C.: Center for Strategic and International Studies, 1992), 22. 90. Galvin, 15–17. 91. A somewhat related issue that arose in the 18th TAWP dealt with former Warsaw Pact material now in NATO. For example, Germany retained a squadron of MiG-29 Fulcrum aircraft from the former East German air force. Delegates expressed concerns about identification-friend-or-foe issues that directly affect NATO airspace control doctrine. 92. A preliminary draft is just a working document. After all the issues are ironed out, a final draft is sent to the countries for ratification. As outlined earlier, after ratification, the document (whether a change, major revision, or new document) is promulgated. 93. AJP-1(A), Allied Joint Operations  Doctrine,  22 November 1996, par. 0001. 94. AJP-1(A), chap. 18, “Joint Air Operations and Airspace Control.” 95. ATP-33(B)