than by spraying the whole population with bombs.” He quickly noted, however, that the success of the air offensive  resulted from selecting the proper targets, which in turn required a special intelligence that established an enemy’s habits of life, mentality, political system, economic apparatus, communications systems, commodities flow, and so forth.53 Unfortunately, although other air leaders echoed his calls for a robust intelligence network attuned to the needs of air warfare , little was done to establish it prior to the war. Through the interwar years, other people at the Staff College addressed the issue of breaking the enemy’s will . Arthur Tedder , an instructor in the early 1930s, noted the effect that one might expect from air strikes  on industry : “Men driven off their tools, clerical staffs from their offices, work decelerated and finally stopped. Material ruined and operations interrupted. Consequent delay, and final complete dislocation and disorganization of systems attacked. Spread of panic. Bombardment of one area likely to stop work in others.” 54 This was an air strategy  of paralysis —not obliteration. One should also note that the RAF  carried out a number of major exercises during the interwar years, the first of which occurred in 1927. Others were held most years thereafter until World War II . The scenarios for these exercises were ostensibly defensive in nature—enemy countries like “Southland,” “Red Colony,” and “Caledonia” were set to attack, usually London . The air-defense-observer network, controllers, fighter squadrons , and searchlight units received a thoroughTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 60  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 89 --- workout, as well as the bomber units. In general terms, the purpose of the bombing  strikes was “to break enemy national resistance by intensive air bombardment of the vital points in the economic and industrial systems.” More specifically, the targets  designated for these bombing units were military o