e four-star generals then in service. 119 The point is obvious—an overwhelming number of wartime Air Force  leaders attended ACTS  in the interwar years, and a significant number of them were systematically indoctrinated in the virtues of unescorted HAPDB  against the key nodes of an opponent’s material infrastructure. In terms of actual course work, ACTS  offered 40 separate courses in its heyday, and 53 percent of them centered on air subjects. The five longest courses were Bombardment, Air Force, Attack Aviation, Combined Arms, and Air Logistics. The ACTS  legacy, as we know it, took shape primarily in the Air Force, Bombardment, and Combined Arms  courses, which comprised roughly 10 percent of the curriculum and employed roughly 15–25 percent of the faculty. Within each course, the faculty relied on a variety of teaching methods, including lectures, discussions, quizzes, and illustrative/map problems. (The latter were pen-and-pencil war games  conducted every Friday for four hours.) Students aided in their own education by giving short, supplementary talks; participating in lecture discussions (actual lectures used only half of a 50-minute period); and conducting individual student research, of which Ken Walker ’s 1929 thesis was the most impressive. (Entitled Is the Defense of New York City from Air Attack Possible?  the thesis was 56 single-spaced pages long.) However, before ACTS  or its students could accomplish any of the above, the school needed to accomplish some foundational steps. ACTS Phase One (1920–26) According to air theorist William Sherman , the relative importance of the infantry in war was not permanent; the airplane (if used properly) could diminish the queen of the battlefield’s stature, especially by acting decisively against ground forces .120 Unfortunately, after World War I  the United States  “found itself with an Air Service  which throughTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 212  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 239 --- necessity had been hurr