command at Pearl Harbor  but soon moved on to the Naval War College . Towers  then came to Pearl Harbor  to take charge, as commander in chief of Pacific Command , the principal striking arm of the Navy .66METS 131  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 160 --- Naval aviators were coming of age in 1945, and at the Navy ’s moment of glory, a substantial part of it agreed that carrier aviation  was and would continue to be the core strength of the service, notwithstanding the fact that no naval threat existed anywhere in the world. Further, the United States Strategic Bombing Survey  concluded that the submarine  in its unrestricted, independent campaign against Japanese maritime traffic, combined with strategic bombing  of the home islands, had been decisive. This use of the submarine  had not been formally articulated in interwar naval theory  and in fact had been rejected by US diplomats at the Washington Conference  of 1921–22 as a morally illegitimate use of the weapon. (As noted above, though, officers playing enemy commanders had explored the idea in war games  and informally during the periodic Submarine Officers’ Conference .) Too, naval leaders came away with the impression that the B-29s  had not been very cooperative in supporting either the Okinawa  operations or the mining campaign. 67 They viewed the bombing  of the Japanese homeland as a waste of time, even though their carrier admirals also had targeted the airframe and engine industries in Japan  at the end of the war. Increasingly in the last two years of the war, Navy  flyers found their targets ashore. Traditionally, in the abstract at least, the very purpose of gaining command of the sea was to influence events ashore. 68 Attention given to the possible use of airpower directly against the sources of enemy power was minimal in the Navy  prior to 1941. As the war neared its end, however—especially after command of Twentieth Air Force  in the Pacific was kept out of the hands of the theater co