stwar French army operational regulation— Instruction provisoire sur l’emploi tactique des grandes unités  (1921). Only one of these officers—Gen Bertrand Pujo  (later chief of staff of the air force)—was an airman. Postwar army operational doctrine found itself essentially frozen in the tactical methods of 1918, known as la bataille conduite  (methodical battle ), which emphasized advances in slow stages, covered by massiveTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 152  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 180 --- artillery support. 4 In contrast to German army doctrine , French operational doctrine  made little mention of airpower except in its reconnaissance  and observation roles. Though revised in 1936, the principles of French army doctrine remained basically unchanged throughout the interwar period. Prior to 1925, the primary activity of the French air force was supporting the army ’s ground campaigns  in Morocco . In the French air service journal, most discussion concerned the tactical  and support aspects of aviation .5 By the mid-1920s, however, French airmen had begun to chafe in this subordinate role. As the army ’s new Maginot Line  devoured a massive share of appropriations, funds available for air force modernization shrank. By tradition, French officers were not encouraged to openly disagree with official operational doctrine , so airmen sought a means of encouraging the role of airpower and the independence of the air force by discussing the concepts of the Italian general Giulio Douhet . The first discussion of Douhet ’s thought appeared in Revue Maritime  in 1927.6 In the early 1930s, French officers published books and articles that commented favorably on Douhet ’s theories. 7 An aviation journal, Les Aíles,  translated a large part of Douhet ’s The Command of the  Air (1921) into French. 8 Douhet ’s stature as a military theorist provided French airmen with a legitimate means of mobilizing popular and political support for the creation of an independent air for