rational depths. The front’s second echelon, normally one army, exploited the success of the first echelon and continued the main thrusts to the subsequent objective. Thus, a significant force remained out of contact with the enemy until the first forces in contact either reached their objective or achieved a breakthrough. Echeloning served to ensure the availability of freshly committed forces for exploitation. 40 Given the importance that Soviet planners  placed upon the attack, the Soviets regarded the breakthrough as their center of gravity upon which operational—and, by inference, strategic—THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 496  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 520 --- objectives rested. 41 The second operational echelon contained up to one-half of the entire front’s committed force to exploit the breakthrough and advance into the enemy’s rear. 42 Air support of ground forces  during the offensive consisted of four stages. First, support of the movement forward called for giving priority to deep targets, especially nuclear weapons , enemy aircraft on airfields, and combat helicopters —forces that might strike friendly forces far removed from the forward edge of enemy defenses. The second stage occurred before the onset of a ground offensive across a specified frontage. This stage increased the mass of fires by combining artillery and air strikes in the attack’s preparatory stage. An extension of the second stage, the third stage provided direct support of ground forces  after the offensive started, concentrating on targets beyond the range of frontal artillery. The Soviets called the final stage the “air accompaniment.” It occurred during the advanced stage of the offensive, when progress of the ground forces  had outstripped the prepared fire-support plan. This stage ensured support of ground forces  as they penetrated the enemy’s defensive positions. 43 The Air Operation.  Generally, strategic operations began with an air offensive. As part of a strategic offensi