tical action. . . . Even when armies and fleets are not employed, their existence and the possibility of their use constantly influence the action of governments. They are instruments of statecraft. The policy of countries must necessarily be controlled by their governments, and strategy from the naval and military point of view, must be subservient to policy.” 2 However much one identified the thought of Alfred Thayer Mahan  with that of Henri de Jomini  (if that is supposed to mean that the adherents look upon war as a science that has natural laws that always apply and that there exists an eternal validity to principles of war), plenty of officers understood fog and friction. There were repeated assertions that both doctrine  and any statement of principles were no more than guides—certainly not invariable rules that one could not violate. The officer corps was thoroughly familiar with Mahan  (for some, both the man and his works—Mahan had been Adm William A. Moffett ’s skipper when Moffett served aboard the USS  Chicago  in the 1890s). 3 Furthermore, it was convinced that, for the United States  at least, command of the sea remained the primary objective and that its exploitation could come later, through blockade  or invasion. For Mahan  and most of his followers, the fundamental method for achieving command was offensive—seeking out the enemy main battle fleet and destroying it. 4 Significantly, they gave aTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 116  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 145 --- great deal more attention to achieving command of the sea than to exploiting it. The officer corps was coming out of a period of very rapid technological  advance. It had witnessed the coming of torpedoes, submarines , and destroyers—all of which had been touted as revolutionary and none of which, in the collective mind, had turned out that way. 5 The necessity for decentralized command , initiative among junior and midlevel commanders, and doctrine  that tended to create a common vo