mand centers, airfields, and logistics dumps. 67. Critical technologies required for AirLand Battle included (1) intelligence technologies that could detect and identify Warsaw Pact echelons and relay that data in a timely manner in order to strike at these (presumably) fleeting targets; (2) precision, all-weather attack resources (both platforms and weapons); and (3) the support assets needed to get them through the dense Warsaw Pact IADS. 68. Naslund stressed this point, specifically relating his belief that the US Army used the threat posed by Warsaw Pact OMGs to gain control over NATO’s deep-strike air assets. 69. The initiative was also proposed for inclusion into US joint doctrine. Joint Test Pub 3-03.1, Joint Interdiction of Follow-on Forces Attack,  16 June 1988, essentially followed the same logic as the NATO concept. Notably, FOFA never became part of either NATO air doctrine manuals or USAF doctrine. 70. The primary difference between classic AI and FOFA was the former’s emphasis on fixed targets such as bridges, while the latter focused on forces most likely on the move. Identifying moving targets in a timely fashion required more sophisticated technologies. See Wing Commander A. V. B. Hawken, RAF, Follow-on Force Attack—Now and in the Future, Research Report (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air War College, 1990). The joint surveillance, target attack radar system (JSTARS), which played such a role in the 1991 Gulf War, was developed precisely for this mission, as was the tactical missile system (TACMS) family of surface-to-surface missiles with “smart” antiarmor submunitions. 71. General Rogers refuted each of these concerns. Arguing that the purpose of FOFA was to “restore flexibility to Flexible Response,” he claimed that FOFA was complementary to defensive operations because “defense . . . protects our [NATO’s] means to attack Soviet follow-on forces, and attacking in depth . . . will help to keep the force ratios at the GDP [General Defensive Position] manageab