hemselves from any sys- tematic authentication. •Facts  are ideas that have already passed the authentication process. •Falsehoods  are ideas certain to fail the authentication process. Clearly, Gen Giulio Douhet  was a visionary . With only the scantiest empirical evidence to go on, he visualized the concept of strategic air war . By sheer imagination, he also recognized the necessity of air supremacy  or what he called “command of the air”—all this before Italy  had even entered the war in 1915. Not surprisingly, these profound visions of what the future would bring were, when it came to details, seriously flawed. Douhet  failed to anticipate the character of air-to-air combat, vastly overestimated the impact of conventional bombing , and misunderstood the importance of aircraft other than bombers . In these and many other respects, Douhet ’s vision was decidedly flawed. But the evidence of experience would overcome these details. The significance of visionaries lies not in the details but in the stream of thought they set in train. Although Douhet ’s works were not widely used by military schools in other countries, his vision of strategic airpower undoubtedly was a significant inspiration to Edgar Gorrell  and Gen Billy Mitchell , who carried his ideas to the United States and ran with them in their own way. We may conclude, then, that Douhet  had a grand vision of airpower, but—lacking the factual evidence of experience—his vision was not systematically prepared for authentication. It would remain elusive and difficult to assess.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 580  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 604 --- The British thinkers about airpower, Hugh Trenchard  and Jack Slessor , had an advantage over Douhet  in that they had more extensive experience in the application of the air weapon. Given the fragile condition of British ground forces , Trenchard  early defined the offensive character of airpower, concentrating on air superiority  and interdiction . But he also