rmation about atomic weapons even to its allies, was not included in a 1958 amendment that allowed Britain to receive nuclear help (page 86). 17. Melandri, 66. 18. This is not to imply that NATO waited until the Warsaw Pact’s founding in 1955 before assessing the attack options from the east. Rather, this constitutes a more general statement on the threat assessment NATO planners undertook in these early years. Furthermore, while other Warsaw Pact countries did retain significant military forces, planners always considered Soviet forces the major threat, particularly those in eastern Europe. 19. MC 14/1 dates from the beginning of the alliance in 1949. However, NATO did not formally accept the force goals needed to implement the strategy until the Lisbon summit in 1952. NATO intended to attain these goals by 1954 but never did so, abandoning them in December 1953,MCCRABB 475  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 499 --- following the easing of tensions in Europe that arose from the signing of the armistice in Korea and the death of Stalin. See William H. Park, “Defense, Deterrence, and the Central Front: Around the Nuclear Threshold,” in Kaplan et al., 222. 20. Philip A. Karber, “NATO Doctrine and National Operational Priorities: The Central Front and the Flanks: Part I,” in Robert O’Neill, ed., Doctrine, The Alliance and Arms Control  (Hamden, Conn.: Archon, 1987). 21. This chapter principally addresses NATO’s conventional strategy. However, no analysis of NATO military strategy gets very far before the issue of nuclear weapons, both their deterrent effects and their employment options, comes to the fore. Without going into a detailed recap of nuclear deterrent strategy, suffice it to say that two concepts—central deterrence and extended deterrence—are key. The first refers to the US strategic nuclear forces and their deterrent effect of precluding general nuclear war, which presumably would have included the NATO countries. The second refers to the deterrent