t the story of his unsuccessful attempts to sell advanced fighter  aircraft to the government. He regales the reader with details about his ideas for increasing the range and firepower of American planes, only to have them snubbed by military officials. These sections smack of self-justification and are of limited value. In fact, because de Seversky  insisted on singling out Hap Arnold  for attack, military airmen did not welcome his message.41 Once again, he alienated the very people he should have courted. On the other hand, heMEILINGER 251  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 278 --- performed a useful service by calling attention to problems that existed in America ’s aircraft rearmament program. De Seversky  pointed out that American fighter  planes were inferior to those of the other major belligerents. They did not have the speed, range, altitude, or armament to contest with frontline enemy fighters. Yet, press releases emanating from AAF , the government, and industry pretended that American planes were the best in the world. 42 De Seversky  rejected such claims with disdain: “No one in his senses would pretend that the P-40  is a match for the Messerschmitt  or the Spitfire .”43 Some people accused him of lacking patriotism, of lowering the morale of American airmen, and of disclosing important information to the enemy. The major dismissed these charges by maintaining that the people had a right to know the truth; otherwise, problems would remain uncorrected. 44 Besides presenting a bleak picture intended to alert the public to the backward state of American airpower, de Seversky  also expressed his views on the nature of air warfare . His most important idea held that airpower  was an inherently strategic weapon. By this he meant that airpower’s ability to fly over enemy armies and navies enabled it to strike directly at a country’s most vital  areas: its capital, industry, government, and so forth. Surface forces , on the other hand, generally foug