trategists defined the threat as nothing less than an anarchic, unregulated future. According to Maj Don Wilson , a core member of ACTS ’s infamous Bomber Mafia , worldwide differences in standards of living and the scramble for markets (to absorb production surpluses) would inevitably lead to increased nationalism . Unregulated nationalism  would then compel the United States  to prevent any interference with its policies and to ensure its national defense . In ensuring its home defense, however, the United States  would have to concentrate on preserving the integrity of the nation as a whole, given that whole nations (and not just military forces) waged modern war. 42 Further, these nations were exploring new ways to challenge US interests. According to 1st Lt Kenneth Walker , another seminal ACTS figure, “The importance assigned to Air Forces by major European powers, among which may be potential enemies, leaves no doubt our future enemies will unquestionably rely greatly, if not primarily, upon the actions of their Air Forces to bring about the defeat of the United States .”43 But what would an enemy air force specifically attack? Most likely, it would be the industrial triangle  extending from Portland, Maine, to the Chesapeake Bay to Chicago. Within this triangle lay 75 percent of all US factories, almost all the nation’s steelworks, most of its coal, and a number of major railroad centers, including New York, Washington, Pittsburgh, and Cleveland. 44 In the opinion of Capt Robert Olds , yet another victim ofFABER 193  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 220 --- “bombus fervidus, ” a devastating attack on America ’s industrial triangle  could unfold in the following way: A coalition of European and Asiatic powers have declared war on the United States . Superior naval forces . . . seek a decisive naval engagement in the vicinity of the Panama Canal . . . . Such actions draw the U.S. Navy  to Caribbean waters, with its naval aviation . Land forces from t