hrough simultaneous or parallel attacks  upon the designated target set. Theoretically, such attacks coerce the enemy leadership to accept one’s terms and change its policy through the actual imposition of partial system paralysis , as well as the potential or threatened imposition of total system paralysis . A paralysis strategy  seeks to make continued resistance impossible for the enemy command. It does so by thoroughly and simultaneously incapacitating the entire enemy system from the inside out. This total system paralysis , in turn, provides one the freedom of movement to change policy for the enemy leadership without interference. Finally, a destruction strategy  seeks to annihilate the entire system, making policy change by the enemy leadership irrelevant. However, as Warden  cautions, “the last of these options is rare in history, difficult to execute, fraught with moral concerns, and normally not very useful because of all the unintended consequences it engenders.” 53 In light of these observations, he dismisses this military strategy  as politically unviable for twenty-first-century warfare. 54 Regarding means, Warden  advocates the continual breakdown of each strategic and operational ring until one uncovers the key to partial or total paralysis . Such successive differentiation exposes the interdependent nature or “connectedness” of the enemy as a system. 55 Consequently, aFADOK 375  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 400 --- thorough systems analysis may reveal COGs  acting as linkages between rings, as well as components within them. Summarizing the salient points of Warden ’s theory  of strategic paralysis , one first notes that the air strategist  must fully appreciate the general nature and specific content of the objectives set by his political masters; these objectives prescribe the behavioral change(s) expected of the enemy leadership and suggest the level of paralysis  needed to effect the change(s). Second, the air strategist  must foc