claims. This has resulted not from any limitation on the awesome power of the weapons  but from the fear of comparable retaliation . What insights emerge from this survey of airpower thinkers? First and foremost is the troubled and erratic development of the concept of the air weapon as primarily a support for ground arms. This is understandable in light of the centuries-long history of surface warfare , with its deeply embedded traditions, slowly evolved doctrines, and elaborate systems of officer education and training. Moreover, the fact that early visionaries such as Douhet  and Mitchell  made sweeping claims for airpower that reached far beyond the then-available technology  tended to induce skepticism in traditionally conservative military circles. As the capabilities of the air weapon improved, surface forces  became increasingly anxious to control this new weapon. The more persistent theirHOLLEY 597  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 621 --- grasp, the more insistent the airpower advocates became in claiming that aviation was primarily an offensive strategic weapon with an independent role in war. This unfortunate tension, which still lingers in some measure, became muted with the post-Vietnam  air-ground “partnership”—a coming together significantly hastened by the necessity of cooperating in a NATO  context. The airpower advocates themselves caused some of the difficulty encountered in winning acceptance of their strategic vision when they disagreed over the nature of their targets . Those who visualized civilian morale as the primary target differed from those who saw the industrial  web—the economic infrastructure—as the main objective. Both views suffered from lack of evidence. Those who favored morale  as the target did so as an act of faith; those who favored economic  targets displayed a surprising lack of effort in defining and refining their target folders. This, in turn, suggests the generally flawed character of air-arm intelligence  eff