orce structure and philosophy of the new American Air Service . Shortly after entering the war in April 1917, the United States sent a mission to Europe headed by Col Raynal Bolling to decide which aircraft were most suitable for construction in America. A member of the Bolling  team, Maj Edgar Gorrell , had several talks with Caproni , who persuaded him to purchase the rights for several hundred of his heavy bombers for construction in America . Soon after, Gorrell  wrote Caproni , requesting information on German industrial targets for use in planning Allied bombing missions. Douhet  probably helped Caproni  compile this information, since Douhet  also was collecting intelligence on the location of German factories. Although the Caproni bomber contract was not fulfilled, the relationship established among these men planted the seeds for American airpower. 18 At the same time, Caproni  provided Gorrell  with a copy of a polemic written by Nino Salvaneschi , an Italian journalist andTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 6  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 35 --- friend of Douhet . Titled “Let Us Kill the War, Let Us Aim at the Heart of the Enemy!” this propaganda pamphlet accused the Germans of endless atrocities, thereby justifying any and all actions taken to defeat Germany . Although Germany  quite clearly had attempted to bomb Britain  into submission by zeppelin  attacks, the airship could not achieve decisive results. Now, however, the Allies had large aircraft (not coincidentally, Capronis ) capable of carrying tons of bombs. These aircraft, termed “battle planes ” by Salvaneschi , meant that “the sky is the new field of combat and death which has unbarred her blue doors to the combatants.” The purpose of these battle planes was “to kill the war,” not by destroying the enemy army but by destroying its “manufactories of arms.” This in turn would leave the enemy with insufficient strength to carry on the war. 19 Gorrell  was quite taken with Salvaneschi ’s piece and di