ntified Japan  as a potential enemy, he plainly asserted that competition with Great Britain  was inevitable and that only the statesmanlike work of the Washington  treaties promised to contain that competition. 33 In post–World War II  terms, all of this constituted a “realist” worldview. From the early 1920s, the war-college games and fleet maneuvers came to feature surprise air attacks  on Pearl Harbor  and the Panama Canal , but the ultimate decision would always arise from a great clash between the main surface fleets . Even the aviators, whose first task was to kill the enemy carriers , gave at least lip service to the idea that the final decision would come from the great gun battle. The bomb-carrying capability of carrier aircraft  in the 1920s and early 1930s was so limited that many aviators understood that the chances of decisive attacks on armored vessels were strictly limited; not until the late 1930s could dive-bombers employ one-thousand-pound weapons at significant distances. Until late in the game, then, many aviators were persuaded that the gun battle might indeed be decisive. 34 Organizing for War Creation of the office of the CNO  in 1915 improved naval organization. Gradually, the traditional power of the bureau chiefs declined, relative to that of the CNO . Some flyers, suchMETS 123  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 152 --- as Henry Mustin , called for the creation of a separate aviation corps;35 however, other flyers and most of the nonflyers were against it, notwithstanding the Marine Corps  precedent. This attitude resulted in part from lingering bad memories about the nineteenth-century dichotomy between line officers and engineering officers, as well as a feeling that such a move would play into the hands of the Air Service ’s Billy Mitchell and his followers. The aviators were satisfied, at least to some extent, with the foundation of the Bureau of Aeronautics  in 1921. Some of the senior officers of the Navy  had opposed the co