01 he published a series of lectures titled “Mechanization from the Point of View of the Military,” and three years later he wrote a pamphlet on the subject—“Heavy and Military Mechanization.” Significantly, although Douhet  saw a role for heavy trucks to move men and supplies in a theater of operations, he did not predict the development of armored vehicles for use on the battlefield. In addition, he viewed mechanization solely in terms of Italy ’s peculiar geographic, economic, and political limitations. Technology would compensate for Italy ’s inherent weaknesses in manpower and natural resources. This theme would later repeat itself in his writings on airpower. 1 In 1905 Italy  built its first dirigible , and Douhet  immediately recognized its possibilities, becoming a keen observer of what he believed was a revolution in military technology. He followed aeronautical events closely, and when Italy ’s first airplane flew in 1908, he commented, “Soon it will be able to rise thousands of feet and to cover a distance of thousands of miles.” 2 Two years later—only seven years after Kitty Hawk— Douhet  predicted that “the skies are about to become a battlefield as important as the land or the sea. . . . Only by gaining the command of the air shall we be able to derive the fullest benefit from the advantage which can only be fully exploited when the enemy is compelled to be earth bound.” 3 However, the superiority of the airplane over the dirigible  was not yet obvious to everyone. Douhet ’s superior, Col Maurizio Moris of the aviation inspectorate, was a staunch supporter of the airship. He and Douhet  had several clashes over the issue, most of which Douhet  lost. In fact, as late as 1914, Italy  was still spending 75 percent of its aviation budget on dirigibles .4 At the same time, Douhet  realized that the aircraft could become a dominant weapon only if it were freed from the fetters of ground commanders who did not understand this new invention. He therefore advoc