n internal defense , by which the manual writers meant counterinsurgency .62 In the scant one-and-one-half page chapter devoted to special operations , foreign internal defense  rated only one paragraph. It did, however, reinforce the notion introduced in 1967 that one must closely coordinate air operations  with civil actions as well as surface operations  in a coordinated military-civilian campaign to eliminate the causes of popular disaffection and build a sense of national unity. During the remainder of this period, doctrinal interest in protracted revolutionary conflicts  declined, at least in terms of basic doctrine . The Air Force  republished the basic doctrine manual in January 1975, retaining only two generalized subparagraphs (one pertaining to special operations  and the other to subtheater and localized conflicts). 63 The same sort of very brief, very generalized treatment of insurgency -related topics carried forward to the 1979 edition.64 Intellectual Fervor and Official Disdain, 1980–94 The period beginning in 1980 and extending to the present writing has been a study in contrasts. On the one hand, enough time had passed since the trauma of the Vietnam experience that more balanced and objective analyses of theDREW 339  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 365 --- war began to appear from the pens of both civilian and military analysts. Ongoing events further spurred interest in limited warfare , LICs , and protracted revolutionary warfare . The mujahideen ’s protracted guerrilla  struggle against Soviet occupation of Afghanistan  became of great interest. Closer to home, insurgent movements in El Salvador  and Nicaragua and continuing guerrilla  struggles in Guatemala  and Peru captured one’s attention. Other protracted struggles in the Philippines  and Sub-Saharan Africa  helped prompt the outpouring of research literature in the civilian and military press. During much of this period, LIC  and, more specifically, protracted revolutionary war