the defensive phase as a temporary measure to buy time in the initial period of a conflict. The Soviets would use this time to mobilize, reinforce, and move rear echelons  forward for the counter-THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 492  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 516 --- offensive. The new doctrine  focused almost exclusively on the initial period of the defense, saying little about the counterstrike and counteroffensive periods. 28 It shifted away from the aggressive nature of the Brezhnev  years, becoming a so-called defensive doctrine  with weapons of “reasonable sufficiency.” 29 The new doctrine  led the Soviet military to develop plans to conduct a more prolonged initial defense. The new military doctrine , however, included a provision to switch, perhaps suddenly, from the general strategic defensive to a counteroffensive, marking the end of the initial period of war. To achieve a sufficient correlation of force for the counteroffensive to succeed, the Soviets needed more forces than the new defensive doctrine prescribed. This put a premium on mobilization of strategic reserves and forward movement of follow-on echelons. After forces from the strategic reserve moved forward, they would exploit the success achieved by early counterstrikes at the front. Without fire superiority, the counterstrike’s surprise, maneuver, and decisiveness were impossible. Soviet forces had to destroy enemy deep-fire systems and reconnaissance , mostly by air, so that maneuver forces  had freedom of action. This scenario mandated answering a NATO  attack with a “devastating rebuff,” although the doctrine  did not clarify whether one limited this rebuff to a counteroffensive only or expanded it to a full-scale, strategic offensive operation. In 1987 Defense Minister Dimitriy Yazov  called for a decisive offensive to follow a counteroffensive. By late 1989, however, when the new military doctrine  emerged, he said, “Until recently, we planned to repel aggressions with defensive and off