d Italian use of dive-bombers  and bombers  in the interdiction  and close air support  roles received favorable coverage on numerous occasions in both Revue de l’Armée de l’Air  and Revue Militaire Générale .30 Air force  general Maginel  cited the successful use of attack aviation  against ground troops  in the Battle of Guadalajara  in 1937 as a model of airpower in support operations. 31 Unfortunately, this innovative analysis within the officer corps came too late to enable a revision of tactical support doctrine  throughout the air force . Moreover, the army  wasTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 158  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 186 --- reluctant to change its methods. Army liaison and command apparatus for the air force  in 1940 had not improved since 1918. When the 1940 campaign began, it took the army  six hours to get a request for air support  to the air force .32 In contrast, German armor divisions could have requests for air support  passed to the Luftwaffe  Air Corps headquarters within minutes—and could obtain the intervention of Stukas  or bombers  over the battlefront within an hour. Army commanders were primarily responsible for the lack of effective air doctrine  in the interwar period. Gamelin , in particular, showed minimal interest in, and little knowledge of, military aviation. Much blame, however, resided on the air force side. In many respects, the interwar French air force  culture resembled a pilots’ club rather than a serious military organization. The techniques of close air support  and army support were neither clearly thought through nor tested, and the few attempts airmen made to reform the system were quickly stymied. The war in Spain  triggered a serious review of airpower doctrine  within the French air force  officer corps. Air force officers reexamined fighter and bomber tactics and the use of attack aviation . The French air force  journal Revue de l’Armée de l’Air  published some of the best analysis of the Spanish air war. Ne