tchell  had not approved them. “I don’t very well see how they can avoid court-martialing you now, my sweet—but I’m sorry it will have to be over something sort of cheap like those cartoons,” she lamented. 76 Mitchell ’s receipt of his wife’s letter coincided with the crash of the Navy  dirigible  Shenandoah  in an Ohio thunderstorm and perhaps influenced his decision to make the Navy  disaster his personal Rubicon. On 5 September 1925 he told San Antonio newsmen in a press release dripping with anger, frustration,THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 102  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 131 --- and sarcasm that the airship  crash, as well as other deficiencies in the Army  and Navy  air arms, resulted from the “incompetency, criminal negligence, and almost treasonable administration of the National Defense by the Navy  and War Departments .”77 Two weeks later he was court-martialed . For Mitchell , the trial and the “Morrow Board ,” which preceded it, were anticlimaxes. Enraged, President Calvin Coolidge , who called Mitchell  a “God-d——d disturbing liar,” 78 proffered the court-martial  charges himself. In addition, Coolidge  summoned friend and J. P. Morgan  banker Dwight Morrow  to conduct a formal investigation of American aviation that would undercut the publicity of Mitchell ’s trial. 79 The president directed Morrow  to produce a report by the end of November, but Morrow ’s hearing concluded on 15 October, 13 days before the start of the court-martial . Mitchell  testified before the Morrow Board  but chose to read long passages of Winged Defense  rather than engage in the verbal sparring at which he excelled. The board’s concluding report, as expected, did not endorse an independent air force . But if Mitchell ’s appearance before Morrow  was lackluster, his performance during his court-martial  the following month was even worse. The trial began on 28 October with the prosecution reading into the record the statement Mitchell  had made to the press after the Shen