d many people in the sea services of the desirability of a unified department of defense . As regards internal organization, war at sea involving the use of aircraft required a task organization that put ships with varying functions under a single commander and that sought to achieve a specific goal. Everyone agreed that aircraft were a major asset in sea warfare  but differed on the question of their employment—whether in auxiliary or independent roles, or both. Those favoring the offensive role for aircraft argued that the aircraft carrier  would be the capital ship  in the future and that all other elements of sea power  should train and organize to support the air arm. As to employment in battle, aircraft would first assure air superiority —ideally by sinking enemy carriers —and thenTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 128  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 157 --- provide reconnaissance , as well as spotting  and damaging battleships  to slow them down for the great sea battle , to be concluded by our own battleships . This vision of surface sailors received decreasing favor from aviators as the interwar period wore on. For the most “advanced” aviators, aircraft would win command of the sea by sinking enemy carriers , and then the air arm would turn to exploitation through mining or supporting an invasion. The Test of War: The Pacific Campaigns How did the experience of World War II  modify this cast of mind? The war did nothing to change the worldview of the line officers of the Navy —as with the leaders of all the other services, they were very much of the realist persuasion. It also did little to change the perception that command of the sea was the first goal, but the means of achieving it went through a transformation. Pearl Harbor  confirmed the Mitchell  tests of 1921—that aircraft could sink unmoving, undefended dreadnoughts. The destruction by land-based airpower  of the Prince of Wales  and the Repulse —both capital ships  and both under way —had a far greate