File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 553 --- power  as prescribed by Mahan . If the popular Mahanian theoretical base and presidential endorsement were not enough, technological growth (smokeless guns, turbine engines, and submarines), naval successes in the Spanish-American War  (1898), several South American ventures, and a growing threat of German naval power in the Pacific all gave impetus to the production of a very capable Navy . The rise of American sea power  pushed the United States  onto the international stage.1 The lesson is clear: if those periods possess (1) the necessary resources, (2) an unencumbered economy, (3) an immediate motivation (here, an immediate threat), and (4) a common vision that supports specific technologies , they are temporary and present windows of opportunity. At the turn of the century, the United States  stood poised on the threshold of a great era: the preeminence of sea power . We are again at the turn of a century and again at the threshold of another great era: the preeminence of space power . The question is no longer one of “if” but “when.” Is the time right for the US military to follow suit with a Mahanian -type book outlining The Influence  of Space Power upon History?  Are airpower theory and doctrine logical points of departure? The answers to these questions lead directly to key military issues dealt with in this chapter: What impact can current airpower theory have on space power theory ? Is a separate Space Force  required? If so, when? To determine the potential impact of airpower theory upon space power theory , one must understand current Air Force thinking, which is offered here as an “aerospace power conjecture”—to wit, one should build space power theory  and doctrine  upon airpower theory and doctrine . Current Air Force doctrine  strongly indicates acceptance of this conjecture. Specifically, Air Force Manual (AFM) 1-1,  Basic Aerospace Doctrine of the United States Air Force, states that “the aerospa