ictions concerning the fate of his country at the hands of American airpower. 63 Nevertheless, the movie had serious problems. In keeping with de Seversky ’s antipathy towards the Navy , the movie depicts sea power  in a hopelessly weak and ineffective light—indeed, it shows most of the surface ships resting on the bottom of the ocean. The Army  fares little better; its tanks become mere toys, easily pushed over by attacking aircraft. In fact, although the movie took only three months to produce, military censors took another 10 months to clear it. Apparently the Army  and Navy  hierarchy pressured Disney  to stop the project. 64 In addition, the film grossly exaggerates the accuracy and effectiveness of bombing  attacks. Every bomb dropped in the movie hits its target—all of which are factories or railroad yards—and nothing falls in urban residential areas. In a surprising sequence, the film depicts the new interhemispheric bomber  advocated by de Seversky . Hundreds of these huge aircraft, based in Alaska, relentlessly pummel Japan . But they have no escorts ; instead, the bombers  bristle with radar- controlled machine guns that shoot down enemy interceptors  in droves. Considering de Seversky ’s spirited push for long-range escort  and his claims that bombers  would  be unable to defend themselves adequately, this scene seems somewhat bizarre. 65THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 258  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 285 --- For the rest of the war, de Seversky  continued to call for a strategy dominated by airpower. He wanted military leaders to emphasize emerging weapons, not obsolescent ones, but they largely rejected his pleas. Like Douhet  and Mitchell  before him, de Seversky  saw little need for historical precedents to buttress his theories. Using history would lead to employing strategies of the past. Since generals actually continued to discuss the campaigns of 1918, they might as well examine those of ancient Greece and Persia for all their relevance to Wo