he labors of a multitude of staff officers—conferring, bargaining, and adjusting—with all sides making good-faith efforts to find acceptable common ground, only occasionally digging in their heels when they sensed some vital interest to their service was at stake. Does this mean that airmen become recalcitrant only when some fundamental tenet of their perception of airpower theory is threatened? In such negotiations, no individuals stand out as preeminent theorists . Staff assignments rotate; generals come and go. Procedures to ensure control, coordination, and synchronization are contrived. One may consider these adjustments advances in airpower theory only insofar as one extends the definition of that theory to include means as well as ways and ends. Although the Soviet threat  that originally mobilized NATO has diminished—for the moment at least—studying how the Soviets and their successors think about airpower remains worthwhile. Any such study should begin with a caveat. The Soviet Union  was never really an integral part of Europe . One should expect differences from a nation that failed to standardize the gauge of its railroads in conformity with the nations of Western Europe. In the USSR  the term doctrine,  for example, was not at all the same as what it meant in Western culture. Doctrine  for the Soviets was mandatory and carried the sanctions of law. What the Soviets called military art comes closer to what the West called doctrine.HOLLEY 595  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 619 --- During World War II , the Soviet air arm was essentially a ground-support force, an orientation continued until the death of Stalin  in 1953. Under his successor, Nikita Khrushchev , Soviet airpower theory  changed drastically. He pushed for greater emphasis on strategic air war , with aircraft capable of delivering nuclear weapons . More importantly, he downgraded conventional ground forces and moved the major share of the defense budget  to strategic rocket forces