d (6) preparation of the armed forces to accomplish these tasks (training, etc.). 9 Soviet military doctrine  guided the development of military art, but military art  was not its subset. Doctrine  consisted of general principles regarding the nature of war, whereas military art  concerned the practical issues of war fighting. 10 Given military doctrine ’s view of the future battlefield, military art described the nature of warfare in general terms. It articulated the likely enemy, types of action to expect and prepare for, and measures to equip and train forces. Further, it provided the synthesis of the national economy andFELKER 487  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 511 --- population in supporting future war . Military art  and its doctrinal underpinnings, therefore, were closely coordinated. In the initial period of war, this coordination became critical. 11 According to army general M. V. Gareyev , the response in the initial period most directly reflected the Soviets’ political intent. He observed that “while politics usually prevails throughout a war, the political aspects are most prevalent on the eve or at the beginning of a war.” 12 Evolution of Soviet/Russian Military Doctrine Soviet military doctrine  changed in response to the complex interrelationships that formed it—international political and military environments, foreign military doctrines , history, technology , and ideology, as well as internal political, social, moral, and economic constraints. Perceived strategic imbalance has remained the prime motivator in the Soviets’ doctrinal evolution. Michael MccGwire  notes that “Soviet military doctrine  has evolved in response to what have been seen as a series of direct threats to the state’s existence. . . . Nuclear testing aside, Soviet actions and the doctrines  behind them must be seen as responses to the perceived threat posed by American decisions.”13 Russian military doctrine , therefore, represents an amalgam of factors. The interna