ars ago, and I have had little to do with naval history or naval aviation since then. I have received very important assistance for this chapter from distinguished experts in the field of naval history. Dr. Gary Weir set up a discussion seminar for an early draft of this work at the Washington Navy Yard in October 1994. Among the historians in that group were Dr. Jeffrey Barlow and Curtis Utz, and the session was a most productive one for me. Barlow’s book and Utz’s thesis were important aids. I also received significant insights from Dr. Clark Reynolds of the College of Charleston and Dr. William Trimble of Auburn University, the biographers of Admirals Towers and Moffett, respectively. Their work went far beyond mere professional courtesy. Dr. Evelyn Cherpak, head of the Naval Historical Collection at the Naval War College, not only was expert and most cooperative in optimizing my research effort at Newport but also read an early draft of this work and rendered significant assistance. Ms. Alice S. Creighton and Ms. Mary Rose Catalfamo were also most impressive in maximizing the effect of the research time I had available at the Special Collections Division of the Nimitz Library at the US Naval Academy. Other important readers who helped were my colleagues—Prof Dennis Drew, Dr. Hal Winton, and Col Rob Owen—Dr. Alexander Cochran and Rear Adm William T. Pendley, as well as Dr. Mark R. Shulman; Commander Joe Tarlton, USN, Retired; Frank Uhlig; and Col Barry Watts, USAF, Retired. The original idea for the chapter was largely that of my boss, Col Phillip S. Meilinger, the former dean of the School of Advanced Airpower Studies and the general editor of this book. His support was generous and essential to the project. 2. Commander P. N. L. Bellinger, USN, “Policy” (thesis, Naval War College, 1925), in Naval War College History Collection [hereinafter NWC History Collection], Newport, R.I. 3. William F. Trimble, Admiral William A. Moffett: Architect of Naval Aviation  (Was