rd ’s investigation revived official interest and support for the Air Corps , even though it had failed to perform as advertised. According to Benny Foulois , a man who Villa Tinker  claimed “had never been young,” the board’s criticisms shamed President Franklin D. Roosevelt  into releasing impounded research and development  funds and $7 million in Public Works Administration funds.) 41 Admittedly, the above demonstrations of versatility were theatrical and of limited value. They made a modest contribution to America ’s growing commitment to airpower, but true progress in the dispute over military roles and missions lay elsewhere. In the case of the Army , the Air Corps and ACTS  concentrated primarily on developing a new role and mission—unescorted HAPDB  by as autonomous an air force as possible. In the case of the Navy , Army  aviators deliberately (and incrementally) intruded into a long-standing naval responsibility—offshore continental defense. ToTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 192  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 219 --- illustrate just how the Air Corps  survived and expanded by appropriating the roles and missions  of others, this chapter now reviews (in broad terms) its intrusion on Navy prerogatives. (In an era when the Air Corps  could not officially advocate offensive air operations  against “nonmilitary” targets, except within an overarching defensive framework, the issue was a natural source of friction.) In its incremental attempt to intrude upon the offshore and hemispheric defense functions of the Navy —and thus create an offensive bomber force through the back door—the Air Corps  sought to (1) define a threat, (2) repudiate the Navy ’s ability to answer that threat, and (3) offer a bomber-based solution. In the first case, Air Corps  (i.e ., ACTS ) strategists defined the threat as nothing less than an anarchic, unregulated future. According to Maj Don Wilson , a core member of ACTS ’s infamous Bomber Mafia , worldwide differences in standards of