A Black Hole in the Wild Blue Yonder,” Air Power History  39 (Winter 1992): 32. 6. As noted in AFM  1-1, a strategic attack (e.g., bombing an aircraft factory) can be a vital part of the realm-control mission, even if people typically see it as a force application mission. 7. AFDD 1 states that global reach/global power is supported by five war-fighting pillars: air superiority, space superiority, precision employment, information dominance, and global mobility (page 11). AFDD 4, “Space Operations Doctrine,” 22 May 1996, states that Space Force operations should gain space superiority, which is further broken down into the conventional roles of control, force application, force enhancement, and force support (pages 6–10). 8. Department of the Air Force, Global Presence (Washington, D.C.: Department of the Air Force,  1995). 9. For example, air presence includes forward basing of airpower assets, the recognized projection capability of US airpower, involvement of airpower in humanitarian efforts, and the strategic role of the Air Force’s intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) force.DEBLOIS 571  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 595 --- 10. The definition provided here is consistent with Air Force and joint doctrine on the subject of air and space forces: “Aerospace Control,” role no. 1 in AFM 1-1, vol. 1, 7; “Counterair, Counterspace, and Counter- information” in AFDD 1,  42; “Space Control” (assure friendly use while denying use to the enemy) in AFDD 4, 4; “Space Control” in Joint Doctrine Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (JDTTP) 3-14, Space Operations,  April 1992; and “combat against enemy forces in space and their infrastructure” in the latest draft of JP 3-14, 13 March 1996. As used here, the term discriminate  emphasizes US tendencies to avoid the use of indiscriminate weapons (weapons of mass destruction, various “nonlethal” weapons, etc.). 11. Subtle but important differences exist between Air Force and joint doctrine regarding force applicatio