e future, such support will proliferate, 56 one-meter resolution will become available commercially by 1997, 57 and one can only imagine the real limit of resolution capability. Very fine resolution and wide-area coverage, multiplying current levels of data flow, only complicate the problem of data fusion. If planners  continue to dismiss data fusion  simply as a computing-power problem, massive amounts of data flow will leave the analyst or operator drowning in data but starving for knowledge. Data obtained from airborne platforms bears the same burden; space-based systems simply afford a wider range of data opportunities. The persistence and position afforded by space platforms present the opportunity to collect huge quantities of surface data; the difficulty lies in deciding what data to collect, how to process it, and what to do with the processed information. Given the benefit of position, surveillance  and reconnaissance  capability provides a characteristic advantage of space power . Duration Geosynchronous satellites  provide a persistent and continuous presence. One can also arrange satellites  in LEO to provide a similar presence. 58 Aircraft presence is transient, and even though long-loiter UAVs  may extend aerial presence significantly, aircraft presence requires sortie generation and support—satellites  do not. Duration  is a characteristic advantage of space power .THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 558  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 582 --- Range Airpower and space power  both have global range. Either medium provides access to any surface target. The range of space power  extends beyond the near-Earth environment, currently out to GEO . Although airpower assets such as airborne lasers or kinetic miniature homing vehicle ASATs may soon offer regular access to LEO , they will not have access to deep-space locations. Considerable time may pass before the range extension of space power  exceeds that of airpower, particularly in a strike capacity. Inherent