ent service. As a result, it enacted into law the more conservative and yet accommodating suggestions made by the Morrow Board . Thus, in 1926 the Air Service  became the Air Corps  (a change in nomenclature specifically designed to convey a new level of autonomy for Army aviation ); it received formal representation on the War Department  General Staff; and itFABER 209  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 236 --- temporarily gained a  potential new advocate in the assistant secretary of war for air affairs. 116 Limited but incremental progress continued with the Drum Board  in 1933, although frustrated airmen now defined a board of inquiry as something “long, narrow, and wooden.” 117 The board’s members—including the commandant of the Army War College , the chief of the coast artillery, and other Army stalwarts—rejected the idea of an independent Air Corps , but they did endorse (yet again) the creation of a semiautonomous GHQ Air Force  to conduct independent operations. Conspiracy- minded airmen like Haywood Hansell  rightfully worried that the proposal was part of a divide-and-conquer strategy by the Army . If the staffs of OCAC  and GHQ Air Force  became bureaucratic rivals, as Army  traditionalists hoped, they would quickly squander their political capital by battling each other rather than their parent service. (The hope was understandable but also unfounded. Air Corps  leaders  successfully prevented the rivalry from becoming unmanageable.) Last, in 1934 the Baker Board  rejected the Air Corps ’s familiar demands for independence and a substantive role in national defense , but the rival Howell Commission  decided, as Perera  observed, “that the Air Service  had now passed beyond its former position as a useful auxiliary and should in the future be considered an important means of exerting directly the will of the Commander-in-Chief.” 118 As a result, the commission called for a highly mobile GHQ Air Force  that would operate as an “independent striki