. Fiscally, a separate space organization would require more overhead—a distinct bureaucracy, independent R&D , test and evaluation programs, and another acquisition  stovepipe. The counterargument concedes that any new capability necessarily entails a cost. Because the United States  could not exploit the new strategic capabilities offered by airpower in the confines of Army culture and doctrine , it paid the cost of producing a separate Air Force . Likewise, we cannot exploit the new capabilities offered by space power  in the confines of Air Force culture and doctrine . We need only decide whether that capability justifies the cost. Roles, missions , and basic tenets have always served as unifying themes across the services. Joint doctrine  reflects common roles, missions , and tenets. Land , sea , and space power , as well as airpower, are functionally equivalent, based upon these common roles and missions . Furthermore, airpower and space power  are closely tied by their mutual strategic function of effecting the use of military power from the third dimension. But airpower, land power , and sea power part company in the pursuit of those common roles, missions , and tenets. Realm-unique characteristics have justified the segregation of the air, land, and sea services. Comparing and contrasting the characteristics of airpower and space power serves to highlight the fact that space power  is also a unique form of military power. Space power —as much as airpower,THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 566  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 590 --- land power , and sea power —warrants separate development of theory  and doctrine , as well as a separate service to organize, train, and equip forces to support that doctrine . It’s a good news/bad news situation for the Air Force . First, the bad news (and the answer to both questions put forward at the outset): once technological development allows us to pursue the full spectrum of roles and missions  from space, and the domestic