e familiar problems of strategic nuclear warfare  and conventional warfare  in Europe  seemed much more comfortable. But the problem would not go away. Afghanistan , El Salvador , Guatemala , Peru , and other trouble spots forced the subject to the surface in the 1980s, and some airmen began to seriously investigate the peculiarities of airpower application in insurgent  warfare. They succeeded in producing a concise, well-reasoned modification of traditional airpower theory based on the consensus developed over nearly 40 years of experience, research, and publication. Unfortunately, the doctrine  they developed has not had the impact it deserves. It remains buried in an obscure operational-level doctrinal manual that few people know exists and even fewer have ever read. Basic Air Force doctrine , the capstone of Air Force airpower theory, remains virtually unaffected at best and contradictory at worst. Most importantly, however, the theory so painstakingly developed—the one that airmen may need to deal with the post-cold-war world—remains largely unknown. In the grand scheme of things, the four-decade journey from the grandiose theory  of strategic bombardment and atomic airpower  to the subtle complexities of protracted revolutionary warfare  has been quite short. Unfortunately for American airmen, the journey has ended in contradiction and confusion. Notes 1. For example, see Richard E. Simpkin, Race to the Swift  (London: Brassey’s Defence Publishers, 1985), chap. 18; and Martin van Creveld, The Transformation of War  (New York: Free Press, 1991), particularly his short chapter entitled “Postscript: The Shape of Things to Come.” 2. Doctrine has many functions, but one can adequately define it as a “framework for understanding how to apply military power. It is what history has taught us works in war, as well as what does not.” US Air Force basic doctrine is officially described as “what we have learned aboutDREW 347  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 37