ith him from the war: air superiority  was an essential prerequisite to military success; airpower  was an inherently offensive weapon; and although its material effects were great, airpower ’s psychological effects were far greater. In a speech on 13 April 1923, he  fleshed out these ideas: “In the next great war with a European nation the forces engaged must first fight for aerial superiority and when that has been gained they will use their power to destroy the morale  of the Nation and vitally damage the organized armaments for supplies for the Armies and Navies.” He then expanded on the importance of the morale factor: war was a contest between the “moral tenacity” of two countries, and “if we could bomb the enemy more intensely and more continually than he could bomb us the result might be an early offer of peace.” Significantly, Trenchard  did not claim that an air campaign  by itself would bring victory in war against a major European foe; rather, it would create the conditions necessary “in which our Army can advance and occupy his territory.” 24 Regarding the belief that airpower  was essentially offensive, the CAS used the example of a football match: a team may not lose if it spends all its efforts defending its own goal, but it certainly will not win. In air war  the offense—not the defense—was the stronger form of war. He did concede, however, that some form of defense (interceptors  andMEILINGER 51  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 80 --- antiaircraft guns) could be useful “for the morale of our own people.” In a typical bit of British sangfroid, Trenchard commented, “Nothing is more annoying than to be attacked by a weapon which you have no means of hitting back at.” 25 In practical terms, this meant as many bombers  as possible and as few fighters  as necessary. The ratio eventually arrived at was two to one. Thus, of the 52 squadrons designated for “home defense,” fully 35 were to be bombardment.26 Interestingly, this force ratio seemingl