orce protect the United States  and achieve an independent victory in war, he insisted that it could do so more cheaply—and more effectively—than either the Army  or the Navy . Yet, the Air Service  could not perform an independent mission, Mitchell  argued, as long as the Army  controlled it. Because the Army  divided air units among its various corps andCLODFELTER 99  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 128 --- divisions to assure that they received adequate air support, air units had a meager chance of being massed together for a long-range, independent mission in which Army  commanders had little interest. “To leave aviation essentially under the dominance and direction of another department is to absolutely strangle its development, because it will be looked on by them merely as an auxiliary and not as a principal thing,” he protested in December 1919. 69 At the same time, Mitchell  provoked the Navy ’s ire with his persistent claims that the sea service provided minimum defense for a maximum price tag. In 1922 he contended that an average battleship  cost roughly $45 million to build and equip, while bombers  cost $20,000 each. Thus, the nation could build either one battleship  or two thousand bombers — each of which could sink a battleship !70 Mitchell ’s argument omitted a great deal, such as the rapid rate of obsolescence of aircraft compared to capital ships  and the high costs of training aircrews and building air bases, but its simplistic logic touched a receptive chord in many Americans. Economy was not the only issue, as Mitchell  noted the mood of isolationism  taking root throughout the country. He titled his book Winged Defense , not Winged Offense, and tried to show that aircraft could also be instruments of peace. He wrote that one could use airplanes to spray agricultural crops, serve as sentinels along the borders to prevent unlawful entry, patrol the national forests for fires, perform geological mapping, and carry the mail. 71 Transpor