between 30 and 40 killed. Moreover, one report illustrated the point by quoting from a 1920 British army directive to its troops in Mesopotamia : “Villages will be razed to the ground and all woodworkMEILINGER 55  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 84 --- removed. Pressure will be brought on the inhabitants by cutting off water power and by destroying water lifts; efforts to carry out cultivation will be interfered with, and the systematic collection of supplies of all kinds beyond our actual requirements will be carried out, the area being cleared of the necessities of life.”38 This was hardly a policy of moderation. Not content to criticize air control  as immoral, some people charged that air bombardment in general was indiscriminate and in violation of international laws  regarding the immunity of noncombatants. Repeatedly, RAF  leaders decried any such intention. In a strongly worded and lengthy memo to the other service chiefs, Trenchard  rejected claims that the RAF  was intent on population bombing . Attacking legitimate objectives in populated areas was inevitable, and “writers on war of every nation have accepted it as axiomatic” that such targets  can be struck. Terror bombing  was “illegitimate,” but it was a different matter “to terrorise munitions workers (men and women) into absenting themselves from work . . . through fear of air attack  upon the factory or dock concerned.” Trenchard ’s memo angrily concluded, “I emphatically do not advocate indiscriminate bombardment, and I think that air action will be far less indiscriminate and far less brutal and will obtain its end with far fewer casualties than either naval blockade, a naval bombardment, or sieges, or when military formations are hurled against the enemies’ strongest points protected by barbed wire and covered by mass artillery and machine guns.” 39 Another senior air leader, Air Commodore Edgar Ludlow-Hewitt , stated flatly that population bombing amounted to “sheer unintelligent frig