egic defenses —the bête noir of MAD  enthusiasts. Nuclear Offense, Defense, and Stability Long before the nuclear revolution , theorists and statesmen concerned themselves with the stability implications ofTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 302  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 328 --- different types of weapons. 74 In arms control  efforts both before and after the First World War , negotiators sought to reduce the chances of war by banning or restricting the possession of offensive weapons without preventing states from defending themselves against aggression. People widely accepted the basic premise that offensive weapons facilitate aggression while defensive ones deter it; unfortunately, differentiating between the two categories proved extremely difficult. Even heavy artillery and long-range bombers  might have defensive utility, while one might use even the most purely defensive weapons—such as fixed fortifications—for offensive purposes. In a strategic relationship dominated by assured destruction , the difference between stabilizing and destabilizing weapons depends not on whether they are better for seizing or defending territory, but on whether they are better for starting and winning (or limiting damage in) a war or for retaliating  against an attacker. Thus, accurate, MIRVed  ICBMs —ideal for destroying the enemy’s nuclear weapons —are relatively destabilizing because of their value in a first strike  and their comparative vulnerability. On the other hand, less accurate SLBMs  optimized for killing civilians are stabilizing, since their invulnerability makes them useful in a second strike , while their lack of counterforce capability prevents them from contributing much to an attempt to disarm the enemy. 75 At the risk of oversimplifying the situation, one might say that being able to kill weapons is bad, while being able to kill people is good. States whose populations are held hostage by the adversary will have to be nonaggressive. US-Soviet arms control  t