efore decided to take flying lessons and surprise her husband; after she won her wings in 1934, her first passenger was Jimmy Doolittle . Evelyn  became a noted aviatrix in her own right, logging several thousand hours and appearing frequently on radio and in the newspapers to discuss her experiences and push for more women in aviation. 19 She and Sascha made a handsome and vivacious couple, noted for their gala parties. One magazine even referred to Alexander  as “one of the ten most glamorous men in New York.” 20 More significantly, he had obvious technical ability as an aeronautical engineer. His aircraft designs won him the prestigious Harmon Trophy, presented by President Franklin D. Roosevelt  in 1939, and the Lord and Taylor American Design Award for 1940. He was not, however, a businessman. His corporation never made a great deal of money and ran constantly behind in its production orders. De Seversky  argued that his aircraft were so original that they required new manufacturing techniques, which took time. 21 The Air Corps —indeed, most of his senior colleagues in the company— disagreed. Executives at Seversky Aircraft  complained that their president was too busy designing new aircraft instead of building the ones already on order. He spent too much money and traveled too frequently on publicity tours. He was a lackadaisical manager. The Seversky Corporation  was a fairly small company during the Depression  years, and the major felt close to his labor force. One shop worker later recalled de Seversky  walking into his Long Island factory, announcing it was too nice a day for work, and ordering everyone down to the beach for a picnic. He supplied the beer. 22 Such affability might have won affection, but it did not fulfill military contracts. Gen Henry H. Arnold , chief of the Air Corps , had great respect for the models de Seversky  produced, but as war approached in Europe , he needed aircraft companies ready and able to meet the challenges of greatly i