my that the primary function of military aviation was observation. However, it further argued that most  of the Air Service  should serve with ground units at the army, corps, and division levels. The remaining number of aircraft, which might include up to three brigades of attack, bombardment, and pursuit aviation, should then form a GHQ reserve that would operate throughout a battle zone. (General Pershing  fought successfully to prevent the Dickman Board  from referring to the GHQ reserve as a “strategical” force. He did, however, hope that the concept itself would appear progressive enough to dampen future agitation by independence-minded airmen.) In March 1923, the Lassiter Board  gave the War Department  its first significant interwar air plan . It advocated an expandable Air Force  based on a 10-year development program and a $495 million budget. It further elaborated on the distinction between army-centered air units and GHQ Air Forces . According to the board, which included airmen Frank Lahm  and Herbert Dargue , it behooved the Army  to assign attack  and pursuit aircraft  to each of its field armies, while also providing bombardment and pursuit striking units to a GHQ reserve.115 Although Navy  opposition prevented this recommendation from becoming law, it did influence the thinking of the Lampert  and Morrow Boards , both of which reviewed, yet again, the status of the Air Service  in 1925. The air-minded Lampert Board  advocated the creation of a Department of National Defense , a unified and independent air force , and the introduction of an assistant secretary for air in three federal departments—War, Navy, and Commerce. Congress , however, worried that these recommendations would further complicate the command and control of the Army  air arm by its parent service. As a result, it enacted into law the more conservative and yet accommodating suggestions made by the Morrow Board . Thus, in 1926 the Air Service  became the Air Corps  (a change in nomen