eny NATO  any incentive to initiate a nuclear war. Success depended on (1) early air superiority , (2) timely cooperation among the Warsaw Pact  allies, and (3) strategic surprise. 23 Thus, the reemergence of conventional operations became the primary doctrinal change. In 1961 the United States  began moving away from massive retaliation  to flexible response , making conventional operations more interesting to Soviet planners —especially if the enemy might not strike withTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 490  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 514 --- nuclear weapons  first. As a result, the initial conventional phase took on very specific characteristics. Time was the “coin of the realm.” Friendly forces needed to destroy both the enemy’s defensive lines and tactical nuclear  weapons quickly.24 Since the most likely scenario involved a surprise attack  by the enemy, doctrine  logically insisted on the primacy of the offense. Other internal and external factors drove doctrine . After achieving nuclear parity with the United States , the Soviet Union  for the first time possessed a credible nuclear offensive capability to deter nuclear escalation . In the international political arena, tensions eased with other countries. As their economy began to expand domestically, the Soviets could field the forces necessary to carry out the military doctrine  they espoused. The historical significance of two major world wars on the continent continued to influence military doctrine ’s reliance on large conventional forces. The internal political apparatus under Brezhnev  became more conservative, pluralist, and bureaucratic in decision making . The military, KGB , and heavy and light industry all received representation on the Politburo . As a result, real appropriations  to each of these sectors increased significantly. In this context, military doctrine  emphasizing a conventional option enhanced the role of the ground forces , again making them “a more integral and legitimate acto