rtly induced by the trauma still lingering from Vietnam, entailed an emphasis on defensive operations. But by the early 1980s, this posture was already moving towards a far greater concentration on the offense—specifically, deep operations employing airpower and highly mobile maneuver units that could attack second- and third-echelon forces. This concept developed into the Army’s AirLand Battle doctrine, acknowledged and approved by the Air Force. In solving one set of problems, however, others arose. For decades the main area of disagreement between land and air forces has been command and control— ownership of airpower over the battlefield. In truth, the issue of the tactical battle was easily solved: the ground commander xxv  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 24 --- clearly had a dominant influence in matters regarding close air support of troops in contact. Similarly, the deep battle—strategic attack—was reserved for the air commander. The contentious issue became the area in between, where interdiction tended to occur. The development of new weapons—attack helicopters and surface-to-surface missiles— that allowed the Army to strike deeper than it had previously, aggravated this disagreement. The interesting aspect of the debate was its surprisingly amiable resolution. Personalities—close personal compatibility between senior Army and Air Force leaders—were instrumental in forging a partnership between the two services. Even these close ties could not, however, completely resolve underlying tensions that emerged from the services’ operating in two vastly different media. Nonetheless, the mutual trust and respect evident between Army and Air Force leaders in the period from Vietnam to the Persian Gulf War stand in marked contrast to the Air Force leadership’s traditionally more stormy relationship with its naval counterparts. Personalities have been crucial in both instances. A particular and unique strain of airpower theory evolved in Europe as a result