history has taught us works in war, as well as what does not.” US Air Force basic doctrine is officially described as “what we have learned aboutDREW 347  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 373 --- aerospace power and its application since the dawn of powered flight” and a “broad conceptual basis for our understanding of war, human nature, and aerospace power.” Finally, it is officially described as “the starting point for solving contemporary problems.”  Air Force Manual (AFM) 1-1, Basic Aerospace Doctrine of the United States Air Force, vol. 1, March 1992, v, vii. Although doctrine may not fulfill all of the requirements of a formal academic definition of theory, it fulfills most of the same functions and in that sense forms a “poor man’s” theory of airpower. 3. The Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) define low intensity conflict as “political-military confrontation between contending states or groups below conventional war and above the routine, peaceful competition among states . It frequently involves protracted struggles of competing principles and ideologies. Low intensity conflict ranges from subversion to the use of armed force. It is waged by a combination of means employing political, economic, informational, and military instruments. Low intensity conflicts are often localized, generally in the Third World, but contain regional and global security implications” (emphasis added). Such a broad definition lends itself to the inclusion of a wide variety of activities, especially since the upper boundary (conventional war) is not defined by the JCS. Joint Pub 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms,  23 March 1994, 222. 4. Joint Pub 3-07,  Doctrine for Joint Operations in Low Intensity Conflict, October 1990. 5. Col Dennis M. Drew, “Insurgency and Counterinsurgency: American Military Dilemmas and Doctrinal Proposals,” CADRE Papers, no. AU-ARI-CP-88-1 (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, March 1988). 6. Ho Chi Minh, quoted