r fighting those in power. Insurgents are often outmanned and nearly always outgunned. Guerrillas negate superior government firepower by operating in small, dispersed groups that do not provide lucrative targets. Guerrilla tactics  also allow the insurgents to “melt away” into the population from which they came. Thus, insurgents generally fight only when they wish to fight. 8 The fourth peculiarity of insurgent guerrilla operations has to do with logistics . Looking at conventional logistic flowsTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 324  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 350 --- schematically, one finds that the flow of logistic support is in the same direction as the advance of the troops in the field. Lines of supply stretch out behind fielded armies to the sources of supply, in turn creating classic interdiction  and strategic targets for airpower. Insurgent guerrillas, however, draw their sustenance from the very people they are trying to influence through both their military and nonmilitary operations. 9 Again thinking in schematic terms, insurgent logistical flows run opposite from the direction of insurgent military operations. As a result, airpower’s classical interdiction  and strategic attack missions may be of little value. Of course, a “less than theoretically pure” insurgency  may receive some support and logistical assistance from sources of supply outside the country under siege (much more the case for partisans than insurgents). To the extent that insurgents use outside sources, the more vulnerable they become to interdiction  and to strategic attacks . The fifth and most important difference between conventional warfare  and protracted revolutionary warfare concerns centers of gravity  for both the government and insurgent forces. In conventional warfare , although the identification of an enemy’s center(s) of gravity  may prove difficult, they remain clearly defined for each antagonist. That is, each side will have deployed its forces to protect its cente