age 531 --- of these and related findings for future Russian defense planning  and policy. 83 According to Lambeth , the Russians concluded that the nature of modern war had changed radically in the last few years, noting that although airpower might not win a war by itself, it had become the decisive force which permitted the attainment of victory, yet kept friendly losses to a minimum. Their assessment contained radical ideas for planners of Russian military  doctrine: •The Soviet concept of redundant, overlapping, and integrated air defenses  contained serious flaws. •Tanks become an endangered species without control of the air. •Quality beats quantity, but one must have enough of it to matter. •Coalition  warfare works, but it’s difficult to conduct. •Soviet concepts of offensive air operations  need revision. •Top-down centralization remains critical to effective combat operations, but it must have flexibility in execution. •Hardened shelters no longer shelter. •Stealth  is the wave of the future. •Ground warfare , as well as air, has undergone a technical revolution. •The end of the cold war  made Gorbachev ’s defensive doctrine  obsolete. 84 On 8 February 1989, Colonel-General Moiseyev , first deputy defense minister and chief of the USSR Armed Forces General Staff, declared his candidacy as a USSR  people’s deputy from the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) . He focused part of his campaign on changing the military doctrinal-review process to give it greater meaning in the General Staff. Additionally, his comments seemed to possess clear foresight in describing the doctrinal review process that followed the Gulf War  two years later. His campaign speech noted that “it appears that we should also revise our attitudes toward work on long-term problems. . . . But responsibility for the end results [of the General Staff] has been understated. The situation is different now. . . . Many difficult problems that the troops are encountering today can be trac