he Evolution of Royal Air Force Doctrine before World War II,” Journal of Military History 60 (April 1996): 256. 74. Col Edgar S. Gorrell, “Gorrell: Strategical Bombardment,” in The U.S. Air Service in World War I , ed. Maurer Maurer, vol. 2 (Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office, 1978), 143. 75. One should note that ACTS’s strategic bombardment doctrine was not the War Department’s official doctrine as laid out in TR 440-15, Employment of the Air Forces of the Army . Despite only lukewarm endorsement by the Army General Staff, the school’s “high altitude, daylight, precision bombing” of the enemy’s industrial web did form a basis for US air plans in World War II and is widely recognized as the definitive American strategic air doctrine in the interwar period. 76. The Tofflers contend that “the way humans make wealth and the way they make war are inextricably connected. . . . It is still not fully appreciated that the great age of industrialism is behind us. The basic system for wealth creation is being revolutionized—and war, as usual, is mutating in parallel.” Alvin Toffler and Heidi Toffler, “War, Wealth, and a New Era in History,” World Monitor  4 (May 1991): 52. 77. This notion of control warfare assumes that the enemy possesses a developed, identifiable, and vulnerable system of governance and information processing upon which he depends to conduct his affairs. 78. As Alan Campen points out, “Actually, the Soviet Union moved to formalize targeting of command and control almost two decades ago when it adopted Radio-Electronic Combat (REC) as a formal doctrine and created forces to execute the concept of physical and electronic attacks on enemy command and control systems.” See Alan D. Campen, The First InformationTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 396  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 421 --- War  (Fairfax, Va.: Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association [AFCEA] International Press, 1992), xxi, note 6. 79. In his briefing “Organic Design for Comm