ough rewards or other positive incentives—by increasing the attractiveness of not attacking rather than (or in addition to) making attacking look worse. 40MUELLER 293  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 319 --- Defense, on the other hand, has to do with making war less unpleasant for oneself. Of course, many policies contribute to both defense and deterrence , especially deterrence by denial . Building up conventional military strength, for example, largely accounts for policy makers ’ tendency to conflate the two concepts. However, some defensive measures, such as secret defenses unknown to the enemy, may not deter. More importantly, some measures that contribute to deterrence  by making war bad for the enemy provide little in the way of defense; of these, threats of nuclear retaliation  against an attacker’s homeland are probably the most conspicuous. In fact, security policies  based on deterrence  rather than defense existed before the nuclear age .41 Although the nuclear revolution  increased states’ abilities to inflict injury upon an enemy without first winning a war, conventionally armed airpower  had already made this possible to a limited degree. Many interwar airpower theorists and advocates believed that nonnuclear strategic bombing  offered the opportunity to inflict truly decisive levels of punishment upon an enemy, regardless of how things transpired on the front lines. (Of course, many of their estimates of the destructive power of conventional bombing  were incorrect, but because deterrence  takes place in the mind of the adversary, such facts matter only when they have an impact on beliefs.) Moreover, the same was often true even before the earliest rumblings of the airpower revolution , most obviously through naval blockades  against trade- dependent states. Nuclear weapons  and associated technologies  brought to the table the ability to inflict catastrophic damage against an enemy, rapidly and relatively inexpensively. In one of Thomas S