people who advocated using airpower  as “flying artillery.” It was not a battlefield weapon; rather, he believed that one should attack the enemy repeatedly, as far from the battlefield as possible. In this regard, Slessor  envisioned airpower as the key element in sealing off the enemy’s forces and strangling them into submission. In short, he promoted interdiction  as the primary air mission of air forces cooperating in a land campaign . In this regard he tended to favor supply interdiction  (material and equipment) over forceTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 64  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 93 --- interdiction  (troops and combat vehicles), maintaining that movement by rail and road was virtually impossible in daylight for the side that had lost air superiority . One probably could not cut off all supplies and communications but could severely curtail them. Moreover, as with strategic air warfare , he argued that the goal should be paralysis —not destruction. 64 Significantly, Slessor  recognized that truly effective interdiction  required cooperation between air and ground units. He even opined that some occasions required the detailing of ground forces  to support the air effort—a heretical belief among most ground officers at the time. Finally, he argued that airpower must be commanded and directed by an airman who was equal in authority to the ground commander . These two individuals and their staffs would collaborate in the design and implementation of the theater commander ’s overall plan. Notably, he speculated that the theater commander  could be an airman. Although Slessor  cautioned against extensive use of airpower  in a tactical role, he did offer some guidelines for occasions requiring such operations. The first requirement was air superiority —as was the case with all air missions. Second, even more than in interdiction  operations, the air  and ground commanders had to coordinate their efforts closely—if possible, their headquarters should be collo