ral function of those objects to the UN . 4. The Environmental Modification Convention  (1980) prohibits the hostile use of environmental modification. What is not stated in international law is probably more important than what is; legal interpretation follows the convention that if the law does not explicitly prohibit something, it implicitly allows it. 21 One must also understand that treaties are just mutual agreements between signatories— they hold in peacetime but not necessarily in wartime. 22 Given these considerations, weapons of mass destruction , ABMs , and environmental modification  weapons are all prohibited, but many conventional weapons  (including ASATs ) and tests of those weapons are allowed in space. The appropriation of space or any celestial body is illegal. Military maneuvers, bases, or installations on celestial bodies (the Moon) are also illegal; however, military maneuvers, bases, and installations in space (artificial satellites ) constitute legal uses of that realm. Unreported space vehicles  are prohibited, but reporting vague functional specifications and changing orbital parameters after launch are not prohibited. In addition to international law, several domestic laws affect how the military might use space, although they certainl y do not inhibit the use of space. They include theDEBLOIS 537  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 561 --- Communications Act  of 1934, whereby the president can commandeer private communications assets in times of crisis, and the Commercial Space Launch Act  of 1984, which provides commercial customers access to military space- launch facilities (at a price). Taken as a whole, international and domestic law limits but does not preclude the conventional weaponization  of space. Rational Factor Military space policy , which derives from national security policy , must support national security  and international collective security interests and remain consistent with domestic economic and social inte