al  control 54 for counterair operations  (and other air missions) though, in practice, tactical control  is further delegated to ATOCs  and their subordinate sector operations centers (SOC) . Furthermore, the operational commander designates an airspace control authority (ACA) , who has responsibility for planning, coordinating, and operating an airspace control plan. Key elements of this plan include airspace control measures and means such as control zones, restricted operations areas, and transit routes. Finally, these measuresMCCRABB 455  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 479 --- consist of positive and procedural controls plus established rules of engagement. 55 Some distinctions exist among NATO ’s Central, Northern , and Southern Regions  as they relate to counterair operations and airspace control  concepts. In the Northern Region , Norway  and Denmark  view their defense needs as largely self-defense measures focused on maintaining territorial integrity. However, they have not insisted on any reservations to either ATP-40 or ATP-42. 56 In the Southern Region , ongoing disputes over national domain of the Aegean Sea  complicate airspace control  systems in the eastern Mediterranean .57 Air-to-Surface Doctrine Although NATO  countries generally agreed on the proper air-to-air role of airpower, the air-to-surface role proved considerably more contentious. 58 The primary doctrinal pamphlet that covers these missions is ATP-27, Offensive Air Support Operations .59 The four areas of disagreement included battlefield air interdiction (BAI) , follow-on forces attack (FOFA) , AirLand Battle , and C 2 of these air resources, including request procedures, approval authority, planning locations, and control functions. OAS  operations involve those that support land forces . The first rendition of this doctrine, ATP-27(A), included three functions under the OAS  umbrella: CAS , AI, and tactical air reconnaissance (TAR) .60 During discussions about revisions to