tlefield of the early twentieth century. In midcentury, nuclear weapons  and missiles altered the strategy of the battlefield. Today, we see high-tech conventional alternatives replacing battlefield nuclear weapons . These new weapons reduce the likelihood of escalation  yet create little or no collateral damage .1 These were the changes to the future battlefield the Russians analyzed in the Gulf War  of 1991. The collapse of the Soviet Union , the waning of the cold war , and the end of the confrontation between communism  and capitalism created a new political-military situation. As a result, the Soviets/Russians altered their military doctrine  and view of the nature of future war , based on their perceptions of airpower in the Gulf War . To the Soviets, military doctrine  represented neither a general theory nor the view of individuals. Instead, it was a system of official state views, encompassing the leading, fundamental, official principles of military theory  for mandatory practice. In its simplest form, military doctrine carried politically approved sanctions of law for military structure and function. Doctrine  codified the country’s political goals and economic potentials into legislative acts, government decrees and resolutions, military regulations and manuals, and basic military orders. 2 485  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 509 --- Russian View of Military Doctrine To understand how the Gulf War  affected the evolution of Russian airpower doctrine , one must understand the broader context of military doctrine  from which it came. The Voroshilov Lectures  define military doctrine  as a system of theories accepted by the state and the armed forces regarding the character, form, and conduct of war.3 They characterize military doctrine  as the body of thought that prepares a nation and its armed forces for war. Political leadership develops the theories according to domestic and foreign policy , ideology, and military-scientific achievements. T