e. It continues with changes brought on by World War I and interwar evolution, and thence to the impact of World War II on the Navy ’s outlook.1 In large part, naval air theory  was formed in the decade after the great carriers USS  Lexington and USS  Saratoga  came on-line at the end of 1927. That is precisely the decade in which the thinking at the Air Corps Tactical School  was in its most formative phase—and that is the subject of another chapter. The examination of each era starts with the general worldview and then considers the ways in which naval officers believed that international conflicts could be settled. It then discusses the general attitude on the proper objectives of a navy in the process, the standard methods employed in naval warfare , and changing views on the ideal organization of forces for war and their employment in international conflict. The study closes with an estimate of the state of naval thinking in all those categories as the nation approached the reorganization of its national security  structure in the late 1940s. Hopefully, comparing that state with the initial one will 115  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 144 --- yield some additional insight into the impact of aviation on naval thinking. Naval Attitudes at the Onset of the Age of Flight The collective attitude of the mainstream of the Navy  at the dawn of aviation was fairly well developed. The service was thoroughly convinced that the world was made up of nation-states and that conflict of one sort or another was natural among them. The premise of Clausewitz —that war was an instrument of state policy—was well understood and accepted. In the words of Commander Patrick N. L. Bellinger , who graduated from Annapolis in 1907 and the Naval War College  in 1925, “War is a political action. . . . Even when armies and fleets are not employed, their existence and the possibility of their use constantly influence the action of governments. They are instruments of statecraft. T