sory group made the statement, “Who’s in charge of the space program is the fundamental problem” (emphasis in original). That is on target. However, the group erred in concluding that “the solution lies in vesting R&D  and acquisition  functions for military space requirements of all services in the Air Force” (emphasis in original). 74 The distinctions between airpower and spaceDEBLOIS 567  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 591 --- power , as well as the service infighting that would result, suggest that such a solution is simply unworkable. A more palatable solution lies in the creation of a Space Force . The entire argument made in the AFA  report supports such a move and eliminates many of the drawbacks mentioned. In any event, given the major differences in airpower and space power , such a Space Force  is clearly on the horizon. The question is no longer if but when  and how. When As mentioned above, we should create a separate Space Force  when the technological development and domestic will allow pursuit of the full spectrum of roles and missions  from space (i.e., not yet). Apparently, a compelling immediate motivation is missing. We find ourselves in a period that possesses (1) the necessary resources, (2) an unencumbered economy, 75 (3) a weak immediate motivation (here, the threat of proliferated space access ), and (4) a common vision that supports specific technologies . It may be temporary, but it presents a window of opportunity. The lack of centralized control —which results in service infighting, inefficiency, and duplication—may warrant a move now. A reasonable compromise would entail creation of a Space Force  whose roles and missions  statements do not include force application  but whose theoretical and doctrinal development ought to include the potential for force application  from space. Aspects of each service culture should contribute to that theoretical and doctrinal development: we must plan to fight while living and operating in