irplanes to spray agricultural crops, serve as sentinels along the borders to prevent unlawful entry, patrol the national forests for fires, perform geological mapping, and carry the mail. 71 Transportation was the essence of civilization, he claimed, and the future of transportation belonged to the airplane. At the same time, one should foster the symbiotic relationship between military and civilian aviation. Every pilot and every aviation mechanic in America  was an important national asset; in peace or in war, they served the country. This coterie of airmen was an  essential element of airpower. To Mitchell , airpower was not merely a collection of airplanes or even of airmen. It also included the aircraft and engine industries  and the entire air transportation system, which consisted of airfields, airways, meteorological stations, weather forecasters, supply depots, and radio navigation aids. All were necessary to have real airpower, and Mitchell  emphatically called for itsTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 100  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 129 --- development—subsidized by the government, if necessary, as was the case with the railroad system in the previous century. 72 In many respects, Mitchell ’s aeronautical ideas echoed the maritime beliefs of Alfred Thayer Mahan —an ironic bit of theoretical affinity, given Mitchell ’s virulent antipathy towards the Navy . Sea power , to Mahan , consisted of certain fun da- mentals: favorable geography, a strong technological base, popular support, and government sustenance. Those ideas applied equally to Mitchell ’s views on airpower. America ’s vast size and global involvement, the creative genius of its citizens (after all, the airplane was invented by two bicycle makers from Ohio), the call for the public to become “air-minded ,” and financial support from the government were all underpinnings of aeronautical strength. At the same time, Mahan ’s emphasis on sea power ’s commercial aspects and the tie between economic