my mobile forces have emerged as preeminent. Thus, the Russians reverted to a military functional structure based on their stereotypical operational art . Although they recognize that Western airpower and space power  represent the primary threat to Russian joint combatTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 518  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 542 --- operations, practical Russian airpower theory plays down its independent role in combat operations, thus emphasizing its support of ground operations . Regardless of emerging aerospace technology , then, Russian airpower  will remain fragmented. Clearly, the new doctrine  gives the Russian military exactly the theoretical base it always wanted. By 1991 the Russian military had become institutionally paralyzed. The new thinking under Gorbachev  led to radical changes in security policy that proved increasingly untenable. In 1987 the Ministry of Defense began subverting and resisting Gorbachev ’s changes to a defensive posture. In effect, progressive dissolution of political controls over the military emancipated the General Staff to act, first covertly and then openly, in revising doctrine  to its former offensive high. As Communist Party  control atrophied, the General Staff increasingly expanded its influence over politicians and elevated its standing with President Yeltsin  by putting down the “White House” revolt. Col-Gen Igor Rodionov ’s opposition to Russia ’s first doctrinal draft, which refuted the first use of nuclear weapons , eliminated defensive sufficiency, and refined the nature of future war , indicated the rise of the Russian military in political stature and control. The net result is a politicized Russian military. Rather than accept tenets of doctrine passed to it from its political masters, as in the past, the military formed its own doctrinal ideas and passed them to the politicians for approval. More importantly, Rodionov ’s success in changing the doctrine  to a more provocative and revisionist view by ca