ve seen a direct linkage between 1929, when Trenchard  retired, and the assumption of command by Harris  in 1942. 79 This connection seems plausible because the common term tying them together was morale bombing . Actually, the similarity is apparent rather than real. Although RAF  policy in the first year of the war followed the guidelines noted above, the pressure of war soon forced changes. France , indeed most of Europe , was now part of Hitler ’s empire; the British army  had been thrown off the Continent at Dunkirk —leaving its heavy machinery behind; Axis  forces were moving rapidly across North Africa ; German submarines  were sinking British shipping in the Atlantic at anTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 70  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 99 --- alarming pace; London  was suffering through the blitz; and British bombers  had suffered such heavy losses in daylight that they had been driven to the relative safety of the night. In short, Britain  was alone, outnumbered, outgunned, and desperate. The choice of Arthur Harris  to lead Bomber Command  in this dark period was pivotal. Like Trenchard , he was single-minded in his determination. Seeing no alternative, Harris  initiated an urban bombing  campaign against Germany ’s major cities, aiming to destroy German morale  by targeting residential areas where the workers lived. The abysmal accuracy of Bomber Command  at night would have produced such area attacks anyway—intentional or not. Like Trenchard  in World War I , Harris  persisted in this strategy—even when greater accuracy became possible in 1944—with a stubbornness  that earned him criticism by the end of the war. Peace and the revelation of the destruction leveled on Germany  only exacerbated this feeling. As a result, Trenchard  and prewar RAF  leaders have been tarred with the urban bombing  brush, although inaccurately. Trenchard  and his successors viewed the collapse of enemy morale  as the ultimate goal, but the mechanism used to achieve that goal