Château de Chamrandes, a magnificent hunting lodge built by Louis XV, as his headquarters. 18 He was always flamboyant. One of his more capable staff officers was Nap Gorrell , a 26-year-old major whom Mitchell  had selected to head the Air Service Technical Section . Gorrell  directed the effort that ultimately produced the first American plan for a strategic air campaign . This plan would reflect Mitchell ’s ideas, gleaned largely from Trenchard , about airpower’s potential to destroy the German army ’s means to fight. 19CLODFELTER 85  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 114 --- By the time Gorrell  completed the plan in November 1917, Mitchell ’s focus had changed from strategic air warfare  to that designed to provide the Army  with direct support. In October Mitchell , now a colonel, left Chamrandes to become Air Service  commander in the Zone of the Advance . The remainder of his assignments before the war ended—chief of Air Service , First Army ; chief of Air Service , I Corps ; chief of Air Service , 1st Brigade ; once again chief of Air Service , First Army ; and finally, chief of Air Service , Army Group—would also require him to provide direct air support to Army movements on the western front . Although after the war Mitchell  would berate Pershing ’s staff for “trying to handle aviation as an auxiliary of some of the other branches, instead of an independent  fighting arm,” 20 such criticisms during the conflict were infrequent. In February 1918, as chief of Air Service , I Corps , he argued that the first mission of offensive airpower  must be the destruction of the enemy’s air force. Thereafter, bombing operations should be essentially tactical in their nature and directed against active enemy units in the field which will have a direct bearing on operations during this Spring and Summer, rather than a piece-meal attack against large factory sites and things of that nature. The factories, if completely destroyed, would undoubtedly have a very f