rmy  (New York: Praeger, 1962); Douglas Pike’s War, Peace, and the Viet Cong  (Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1969); and Sir Robert Thompson’s No Exit from Vietnam  (New York: David McKay, 1969). 51. During the 1970s, Air University attempted to produce monographs about important subjects/events in the Vietnam conflict, resulting in the Southeast Asia Monograph Series  published through the US Government Printing Office between 1976 and 1979. Evidently, this effort was neither well organized nor supported because some of the nine monographs produced appear to have been “sponsored” either by Air War College or Air Command and Staff College. Some appear to have been student projects while others were written by general officers. The final two monographs were produced under the auspices of the Airpower Research Institute. Additionally, the subject matter varies widely, ranging from in-depth analyses of individual air operations to broad views of entire air campaigns. The final monograph in the series is a “puff piece” about Air Force heroes of the war in Southeast Asia. The lack of monograph titles (only nine covering nearly a decade of US involvement in Vietnam), the lack of consistent sponsorship, and the occasionally slipshod editing and publishing of the series may be a further indication of the lack of serious interest in the Vietnam War following the US withdrawal. In a sense, US airmen may have been suffering from collective intellectual “battle fatigue.” 52. See, for example, the following: S. W. B. Menaul, “The Use of Air Power in Vietnam,” RUSI Journal of the Royal United Services Institute for Defence Studies,  June 1971, 5–15; Thomas H. Henriksen, “Lessons from Portugal’s Counter-insurgency Operations in Africa,” RUSI Journal of the Royal United Services Institute for Defence Studies,  June 1978, 31–35; and Thomas Arbuckle, “Rhodesian Bush War Strategies and Tactics: An Assessment,” RUSI Journal of the Royal United Services Institute for Defence Studies,  Dec