Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE)  wanted centralization of control functions  at the highest practicable level of command, while the US Navy , US Marine Corps , and the United Kingdom ’s Royal Air Force (RAF)  wanted decentralized control  of air operations  at the lowest possible level  of command. 41 This disagreement permeates discussions over NATO air doctrine  to this very day. Finally, the process of developing, coordinating, and finally ratifying this keystone document 42 reveals the slowness of doctrine  development—almost six years from SACEUR ’s original tasking to an approved document. The last point becomes especially important in understanding the role played by the United States  in developing NATO’s initial air doctrines . US officers working this process tended to have much shorter tours of duty than other NATO  members (especially the RAF ). Thus, someTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 452  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 476 --- negotiations once thought final would reoccur as new US action officers came on-line with less than complete knowledge of the preceding negotiations. Further, these negotiations occurred during the infancy of US joint doctrine . The lack of a “US” position versus “USAF ” or “US Navy ” positions complicated and slowed negotiations within the working parties. 43 Basic Tactical Air Doctrine The purpose of ATP-33 is to ensure the effective employment of NATO  air resources in tactical air operations  to attain and maintain air superiority , interdict enemy combat forces and their supporting installations, and assist—through combined/joint operations—ground or naval forces in achieving their objectives. 44 This doctrine , like basic USAF doctrine , recognizes the priority of air superiority —a perspective based on NATO ’s recognition that air superiority provides freedom of movement to friendly forces and, by denying it to enemy forces, facilitates other NATO  air missions. Furthermore, contrary to the beliefs of mo