ould cause confusion. . . . In war, when time is of the essence and quick reaction so necessary, centralized military authority will surely be mandatory.” Further, with regard to unity of command , the document observes that “centralized control  and decentralized executionDEBLOIS 545  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 569 --- are essential to the successful and optimal use of space power . Since space forces are global in nature and include critical national assets, they should be tasked and assigned from a global perspective. In a regional conflict, the theater commander should have control over accurate and timely products from space but should not have actual physical control of the satellite , its control systems, or ground control nodes.” 37 This view marks a significant departure from air doctrine , which calls for the regional commander’s complete physical control of assigned air assets. Ironically, Air Force doctrine maintains that this is still decentralized execution —but nowhere does that doctrine  explain decentralized execution. This situation clearly results from force-fitting a basic tenet of airpower onto space power . If the regional commander “should not have actual physical control of the satellite , its control systems, or ground control nodes,” where does that control lie? The answer is that the centralized control  of space assets—and the controlling element for remote space assets—is almost always the executing element. General White ’s comment strongly supports “centralized military authority .” The span of “military authority” encompasses C 2 and execution. Decentralized execution requires both a clear understanding of the mission and the autonomy to carry it out. The price of optimally applying space assets across the worldwide battle space is a centralized buffer with automated or screened prioritization, which detracts from the autonomy of any one regional commander. Both cost and capability optimization of space assets drive ce