ack . In such an instance, the numerical advantage gained by an attacker achieving tactical surprise and avoiding airborne interception quickly evaporates. Theoretically, if antiaircraft guns are extremely effective, interceptor  aircraft are not even necessary for a successful defense. Moreover, Douhet  seemed to assume that in order for a defense to be effective, it must stop all of an attacker’s aircraft. World War II  proved that this was far from the case. Even in those instances in which the defense—using both interceptors  and antiaircraft guns—was able to shoot down “only” 20 percent of an attacking bomber  force, the effect on the attacker was nearly catastrophic. As the American strikes on Schweinfurt  in the fall of 1943 showed, such loss rates were not simply unacceptable but were well within the capabilities of a defender to achieve. In truth, although Douhet —like many of his contemporaries—vilified the generals of the Great War  for foolishly falling into a “cult of the offensive,” the Italian air theorist followed much the sameMEILINGER 27  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 56 --- path. In this sense at least, Douhet  was philosophically at one with the surface generals he so roundly criticized. Somewhat surprisingly, Douhet  did not adequately address the issue of objectives, even though he recognized their importance and saw targeting  as the most important task of the air commander . In the exasperated words of Bernard Brodie,  “How could one who had so little idea of what it is necessary to hit be quite so sure of the tremendous results which would inevitably follow from the hitting?” 65 Although Douhet  mentions general target sets , nowhere does he undertake a systematic examination of what would be necessary to dismember a country’s industrial system. This omission may partly be a result of his belief that the will of the people  was a target of such overwhelming importance that elaborating on the other vital centers  was unnecessary.