itary potential” to “those forces  not engaged in close combat, his supplies . . . and the means by which these unengaged forces and supplies are moved” (emphasis added). 96 In contrast, Meyer  defines strategic attack  as an action against enemy centers of gravity , which include “characteristics, capabilities, or locations from which alliances, nations and military forces derive their will to fight , their physical strength, or their freedom of action.” 97 By implication, this includes attacks against command, control, communications, and intelligence (C 3I) targets, basic industrial targets , and fundamental infrastructure targets not solely devoted to military forces. The latest versions of the counterair  and airspace control pamphlets, however, continue to reflect NATO ’s long-standing commitment to the primacy of the air superiority  mission, 98 especially DCA ,99 and the imperatives of an integrated airspace control  scheme. While not defining a JFACC /ACA relationship specifically, ATP-40(A) stresses that the ACA must have the authority to plan, coordinate, and organize the airspace control system (ACS) , including all weapons (both aerial and surface-to-surface) that operate within the ACS . The planning process, therefore, must include all users. 100THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 466  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 490 --- Finally, ATP-27(C) on OAS  still firmly holds to the concept of BAI but specifies that OAS  missions include only those flown between the forward line of own troops (FLOT)  and the corps area of responsibility. This places OAS  firmly in a battlefield context and not as deep as either AI  or strategic attack . Again, although not specifying the JFACC  concept, ATP-27(C) does emphasize the requirement for unity of command under a single air commander —specifically (in the Central Region ), COMAIRCENT, a PSC  under commander in chief Central Europe (CINCENT). 101 Notably, COMAIRCENT would have operational control of the forces assigned t