, while the land forces of the belligerents have barely even begun their mobilization and assembly. The war of the future is therefore rapid, violent, relatively bloodless (compared to the Great War ), and dominated completely by airpower. This vision—almost hopeful and utopian in some respects—would dominate airpower theory for the next decade. It is therefore imperative at this point to examine more closely Douhet ’s assumptions and conclusions, many of which, quite simply, were wrong. Douhet  initiated a fundamental debate, never resolved, over whether airpower is unique and revolutionary or whether it is just another arrow in a soldier’s or sailor’s quiver—and thus evolutionary. Debate hinges on the alleged decisiveness  of airpower. Can airpower  be decisive in war? Perhaps the answer depends on the definition of that term. Some people use it to imply that airpower can (or cannot) win wars independently of other arms. But no service is likely to win a war alone in the modern age, so that definition is not useful; moreover, few airmen would make such a claim. Others define decisiveness in terms of destruction of an enemy force or the occupation of territory. Douhet  argued that these results were not the objects of war and were often irrelevant. Trafalgar did not end the Napoleonic wars, and although Hannibal  occupied most of Italy  for a decade and destroyed several Roman armies, he still lost the war. A more useful meaning of the term entails identifying the force predominant in achieving the desired goal. If that goal includes the quarantine of a belligerent, as in the Cuban missile crisis of 1961, then sea power will dominate. If, on theMEILINGER 19  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 48 --- other hand, the goal is to topple a dictator and restore democracy, as in Panama , then ground forces will dominate. But in other instances, such as the Persian Gulf War , airpower is dominant. In terms of this meaning, Douhet believed passionately that airpower