lanners  considered possible responses, Warden ’s Checkmate Division  developed an air option. Firmly believing in the efficacy of striking enemy COGs , he resurrected the five-rings FADOK 373  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 398 --- model  to guide the creation of a strategic air campaign . As Warden  observed, “This was a case where the theory existed before the fact and the facts validated the theory.” 48 Further refinement of his strategic air theory occurred in the afterglow of Desert Storm . Warden  drew several lessons from the Gulf War  that would influence his thinking. Among the most prominent were (1) the importance of strategic attack and the fragility of states at the strategic level; (2) the fatal consequences of losing strategic and operational air superiority ; (3) the overwhelming effects of parallel warfare (that is, the near-simultaneous attack upon strategic COGs throughout the entire theater of war); (4) the value of stealth and precision  weaponry in redefining the principles of mass and surprise; and (5) the dominance of airpower as the key force in most, but not all, operational- and strategic-level conflicts within the next quarter to half century. 49 Coupling his early thoughts on airpower with his experiences in the Gulf War , Warden  established a theoretical foundation for employing airpower in the twenty-first century. Fundamentally, this groundwork relates ends, ways, and means. First, air strategists  must appreciate the political objectives sought by military action (ends). Second, they must determine the best military strategy  to induce the enemy to comply, as defined by those political objectives (ways). Third, they must use the five-rings  systems analysis to identify which COGs  to subject to parallel attack (means). In terms of ends, Warden  accepts Clausewitz ’s maxim that all wars are fought for political purpose. Although wars may have their own distinct capabilities and limitations relative to other tools availab