uring this period addressed ways of making defensive doctrine  and reasonable sufficiency work after military restructuring. According to Lester Grau  of the Foreign Military Studies Office , many indicators show that the declaration of a defensive doctrine  was “a purely political decision made for economic and political purposes and imposed on the military with little regard for the military logic of that doctrine.” 33 He points out that, after the new doctrine declaration, professional books and journal articles published in the USSR  continued to reflect the Soviet military’s conservative approach to operational art . The Soviets found themselves on a trip down a poorly lit and twisting path, where perceptions and reality would come into sharp conflict. New US and NATO  systems were clearly a generation ahead of those of the Soviets. The role of precision-guided munitions (PGM)  and electronic warfare (EW)  had added a great combat additive to NATO  forces. Although the Soviets clearly lagged behind, they did not intend simply to mirror NATO ’s reliance on technology  as a force multiplier. 34 Soviet military professionals asserted that they would “not follow in the wake of the probable enemy and copy his weapons and employment concepts [but would] seek asymmetrical solutions, combining high combat effectiveness with economic efficiency.” 35 The Soviet forces “are to become equipped with the latest inTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 494  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 518 --- science and technology  and become increasingly more flexible, cohesive, and mobile.” 36 The revamped force structure would become compact, ready, and easily expandable by an enhanced mobilization base. Finally, the restructured force relied on fully automated command, control, and communications (C 3) infrastructure to facilitate mission execution. 37 The Soviets hoped that the synergy produced by these factors would amount to an order-of-magnitude increase in combat effectiveness. The Sovi