nes, however skillful and vigilant their pilots, however powerful their engines, however mobile their machines, and however numerous their formations, to prevent hostile aircraft from crossing the line if they have the initiative and determination to do so.” 5 This basic concept would remain a recurring theme among air theorists  up to the present, but Trenchard ’s emphasis contained a unique single-mindedness bordering on stubborn- ness.  Because the aeroplane was an offensive weapon, one had to guide it “by a policy of relentless and incessant offensiveness”: 6 the deeper that British  planes flew into German territory, the better—regardless of losses incurred or physical damage caused. Trenchard  believed that the act of the offensive was essential because it granted a “moralTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 44  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 73 --- superiority” to the attackers. This attitude—the aerial equivalent of French Plan XVII —explains not only why Field Marshal Douglas Haig  thought so highly of Trenchard , but also why he acquired the reputation as a stubborn and uncaring commander who needlessly threw away the lives of his men in a vicious battle of attrition  every bit as deadly as the one conducted on the surface. 7 Obviously, the question of precisely how one should use aircraft offensively behind German lines was crucial. Trenchard  argued that, first, one had to attack enemy airfields to keep the Germans out of the sky and thus ensure air superiority  for the Allies. Like his successors, Trenchard realized the essentiality of air superiority  for the successful conduct of military operations. 8 Beyond that, the general insisted that air operations  be conducted in conjunction with the ground effort. The situation for the British army throughout the war was precarious, and Trenchard  realized the importance of the air arm’s protecting the fragile forces of Haig . Consequently, he envisioned an air campaign  focusing on what today we would term “inte