e of indiscriminate weapons (weapons of mass destruction, various “nonlethal” weapons, etc.). 11. Subtle but important differences exist between Air Force and joint doctrine regarding force application. While joint doctrine focuses only on attack against enemy forces,  Air Force doctrine allows for the possibility of attacking enemy critical nodes or key targets,  including both enemy forces (interdiction, close air support, and C 2 attack) and strategic critical nodes (strategic attack) that are not necessarily part of the enemy force. 12. The definition provided here is consistent with Air Force and joint doctrine on the subject of air and space forces. The one internal discrepancy involves lift. AFM  1-1 includes lift in force enhancement, while JDTTP  3-14 puts it under force support. This essay assumes that lift falls under support, not enhancement, as does  AFDD 4 (see page 9). As noted earlier, though, the role and mission matchups are not exclusive. Further, although one typically assumes that space assets will support terrestrial military functions, force enhancement could eventually cut both ways—that is, terrestrial assets may support space warfare. 13. The definition provided here is consistent with Air Force and joint doctrine on the subject of air and space forces. 14. See Giulio Douhet, The Command of the Air, trans. Dino Ferrari (1942; new imprint, Washington, D.C.: Office of Air Force History, 1983); and Phillip S. Meilinger, Ten Propositions Regarding Air Power  (Washington, D.C.: Air Force History and Museums Program, 1995), 14–19. 15. AFDD 4, “Space Operations Doctrine,” draft, August 1995, 5. 16. “Defining Missile Defense: What Missile, Which Defense?” Military Space 13 (8 January 1996): 1–5. Current budget debates focus on the level of Department of Defense (DOD) ballistic missile defense (BMD) spending. This is not a question of whether or not to pursue BMD but one of how much and how soon. President William Clinton recently vetoed the $3 bill