scured the strategic bankruptcy of the concept.” 79 At many military “futures and technology ” conferences, the space technology  of choice always assumes space weaponization in the form of various systems, such as TAVs . Why? The international community seems strongly opposed to the weaponization  of space. Might an investment now to produce military space systems  in the near term be a narrow technological vision that obscures the strategic bankruptcy of the concept? Some of the futures studies  directed by the Air Force  chief of staff are seriously considering the possibility of moving funds away from systems and toward basic research. 80 We are on the threshold of a new era—the preeminence of space power . One should note that the preeminence of sea power  did not immediately follow the ability to access the seas but required prolific, developed access to the realm, as well as domestic will, economic capability, and an accommodating international environment. The convergence of these factors for space has not occurred but seems close at hand. Any examination of the characteristics of airpower and space power  shows that the two are not identical. The time is right to establish an organizational structure that can plan for our future in space but not inhibit the unique and necessary development of airpower. When the worldwide technological, economic, and political environment does converge—and space power  becomes preeminent—will the United States  be an economically burned-out nation that boosted the world into space 20 years early, or will it lead the world into space when the forces converge naturally? Unity of command  and unity of effort  are basic military and managerial concepts that date from antiquity. For a brief period in the 1960s, President John F. Kennedy  provided that unity, and it propelled us to the Moon. Such unity in the space community is sorely lacking today. The Air Force  is theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 570  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --