air force built around the bomber  was the cheapest and most efficient means to defend his nation. Unlike his American counterpart, Douhet  had to consider that his country was susceptible to air attack . The Italian asserted that a defending air force could not protect all of a nation’s vital centers , because the defender could never be certain what centers the attacker would choose to strike. His answer was to attack first, with as much airpower as possible, and destroy the enemy’s ability to retaliate in kind. Once enemy bombers  took to the air against an unknown target, attempting to stop them was probably futile. 66 Mitchell  realized that advancing technology  would ultimately overcome the limitation on range that protected the United States  from air attack  by a European or Asiatic power. Under his guidance, Air Service  colonel Townsend F. Dodd  in April 1919 prepared a study evaluating the need for a separate air force . It concluded that “the moment that [an] aircraft reaches that stage of development which will permit one ton of bombs to be carried from the nearest point of a possible enemy’s territory to our commercial and industrial centers, and to return to the starting point, then national safety requires the maintenance of an efficient air force adapted for acting against the possible enemy’s interior.” 67 By the time that transoceanic flight had been perfected, Mitchell  aimed to make Americans an “air-going people,” ready to conduct “war at a distance” through a Department of Aeronautics  equal in status to Army and Navy Departments in a single Department of National Defense .68 Mitchell  tried to transform the American populace into airpower advocates by emphasizing the progressive notions of order and efficiency. Not only could an autonomous air force protect the United States  and achieve an independent victory in war, he insisted that it could do so more cheaply—and more effectively—than either the Army  or the Navy . Yet, the Air Service  c