inated air support. In something of a doctrinal muddle for several years after Vietnam , the Air Force  appeared to follow the Army ’s lead. Some forces, however, tended to pull the services in opposite directions. These included the operational differences between the media in which they fought, the cultural implications these differences engendered, varying approaches to the meaning of doctrine  and the institutional structure for developing it, and the capabilities of emerging technology . Air and land forces fight in two distinctly dissimilar environments. The former enjoy the flexibility to focus their effects at different loci, depending on the strategic, operational, and tactical dictates of the moment; but their presence is relatively transitory. The latter offer the offsetting advantage of much more permanent effects, but gravity limits their flexibility. These diverging operating characteristics produce cultural approaches to war that maximize the inherent strengths of each force (i.e., flexibility and permanence). Beyond these endemic difficulties of developing common doctrine, the Army  decided in 1973 to create a major subordinate command dedicated to the formulation and promulgation of doctrine  and the integration of that doctrine into its training, organization, and equipment-development systems. That decision, together with the Air Force ’s choice not to create such a command, made it difficult for the two services to develop a common doctrinal framework. Finally, the technological evolution that extended the ranges of land-based indirect fire systems and armed helicopters blurred the line between what had served as the relativelyWINTON 431  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 456 --- exclusive operational domains of the two services, thus creating new doctrinal challenges that defied easy solution. Interestingly, the partnership between the two services appeared to be independent of two factors that frequently play a role in interservice rel