ition, sudden unemployment left him time for other pursuits. Specifically, he used his considerable charm and communication skills to write and talk about his favorite topic: airpower. From this point on, the technical aspects of the major’s career faded into the background as his primary focus became the education of the American public regarding airpower. Events would prove that de Seversky  was far more influential as an author than as a builder. When de Seversky  began writing about airpower, he enjoyed two advantages over the theorists  who had preceded him. First, he was not a serving military officer and therefore did not fear the retaliation of irked superiors. In view of the fact that Giulio Douhet  and Billy Mitchell  had been court- martialed for pressing their views on airpower too strongly, this consideration was a substantial one. Second, because of de Seversky ’s background as a successful aeronautical engineer and designer, he was less likely to fall into hyperbole when discussing aircraft capabilities—the blight of otherTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 246  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 273 --- airpower advocates. The freedom to speak his mind, with formidable technical authority, coupled with his dynamic and energetic personality, made him enormously popular in a very short time. De Seversky ’s voluminous writings shared certain characteristics. First, they demonstrated a willingness to take on military leaders and their cherished beliefs. Second, they displayed a deep-seated anti-Navy  bias that grew over time. De Seversky  also employed a strategy of taking his case directly to the American people, bypassing intermediate filters imposed by military officials. Finally, the major had an unshakable belief in the effectiveness and efficiency of airpower. For example, airpower theorists typically criticized the conservative and traditional thinking of surface commanders , whom they considered relics of a bygone age. They did not understand the new air