--- coordinated by a chief of staff. Douhet ’s rationale was not based on economic efficiency but military necessity. One could not subdivide war by medium—air, land, and sea. It was a whole, and only people who understood the use of military forces in all three mediums could understand war: “There are experts of land, sea and air warfare. But as yet there are no experts of warfare. And warfare is a single entity, having a single purpose.” 69 He therefore proposed a national war college to educate soldiers, sailors, and airmen in the overall conduct of war. Douhet  also perceptively noted the tension between separateness and joint action between the services. His call for a unified defense department on the one hand and an air force which dominated that defense department on the other was not inconsistent. Service cooperation did not mean equality. Merely dividing the defense budget into three equal parts would be dangerous if the roles played by those parts were not equal. Hard choices had to be made, and to Douhet the logic was inescapable. Since land  and sea forces  could not survive in the face of air attack , it was folly to pretend that those arms were the decisive forces in war and should be supported by air. The opposite was true. Airpower was now the key arm, and armies and navies must support it. Although Douhet  was the first and most noteworthy of the early airpower theorists , the extent of his influence is debatable. Largely because he wrote in a language not shared by many military thinkers—a circumstance exacerbated by the fact that he deliberately confined his writing to the professional journals of his own country—Douhet  initially was not well known outside his native land. The British, for example, may have heard of his ideas, but the first article to appear in the official journal of the Royal Air Force  was not published until 1933. 70 The Command of the Air  was never required reading at the RAF Staff College  between the wars, and one histor