wed “a woeful ignorance . . . and in some cases possibly a falsification of evidence, with the evident intent to confuse Congress .” When asked by Secretary of War John W. Weeks  to elaborate on his testimony in writing, Mitchell  declined to provide specifics and added additional charges. He berated the Navy  for the conduct of its bombing tests, remarking that it “actually tried to prevent our sinking the Ostfriesland .”73 Mitchell  had recently angered Secretary Weeks  by publishing an explosive series of aviation articles, unreviewed by the War Department , in The Saturday Evening Post . The confronta- tional testimony following on the heels of those articles caused Weeks  to shun Mitchell ’s reappointment as assistant chief of the Air Service  when it came up for renewal in March 1925. 74 At the end of the month, Mitchell  reverted to his permanent grade of colonel and was transferred to Fort Sam Houston  in San Antonio, Texas, as aviation officer for the Army ’s VIII Corps Area. Mitchell , however, had no intention of remaining dormant in Texas. In August 1925 he published Winged Defense , which expanded many of the arguments that he had made in The Saturday Evening Post  articles. Although stressing the importance of an independent air force  built around the bomber , the book continued the attack on Army  and Navy  leaders who opposed such an organization. 75 It also contained cartoons lampooning Secretary Weeks , who at the time of publication had become seriously ill. Mitchell  had been unaware that the cartoons would be published in the book, and on 4 September he received a letter from Elizabeth , who was in Detroit with their infant daughter. His wife was greatly distressed about the appearance of the cartoons and contended that no one would believe that Mitchell  had not approved them. “I don’t very well see how they can avoid court-martialing you now, my sweet—but I’m sorry it will have to be over something sort of cheap like those cartoons,” she lame