stly secondary sources, the study did provide at least one prophetic insight when the authors noted, “If the cause of an insurgency  is not, or cannot be, erased, then the best military effort will probably be defeated in the long run.” 44 Perhaps the most important article published in the professional military literature in 1965 was a lecture delivered by Bernard Fall  at the Naval War College . It provided extremely lucid insights into the nature of protracted revolutionary warfare  that should have caused all US military leaders to reflect on the “American way of war” in the Vietnamese context.45 In retrospect, it seems amazing that a survey of the American military literature reveals an almost total absence of articles and books that dealt directly with the use of airpower in counterinsurgencies  between the spring of 1965 and theDREW 335  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 361 --- spring of 1967. Nor did the situation improve significantly for the remainder of the decade. However, in April 1967 Maj Gen Rollen H. Anthis  wrote an article for Air Force Magazine that displayed both considerable insight and considerable weakness of military thought. Anthis , the former commander of 2d Air Division  (later redesignated Seventh Air Force ) in South Vietnam  from 1961 to 1964, defended the use of airpower in Vietnam  against its critics. He cited the ability of airpower to find the enemy, transport troops and supplies to vital points, provide firepower to outposts under siege, maintain government lines of communications (LOC)  and supply, and harass enemy guerrilla  forces. However, he failed to mention the importance of the nonmilitary side of insurgent  operations and the importance of integrating military and nonmilitary counterinsurgent  operations. 46 An Air War College  student research paper of 1967 provided a more balanced view of airpower in counterinsurgent operations. Col Robert L. Hardie ’s study emphasized the dual nature of insurgent warfare  an