and in many of these wars—as against the Vietcong  for example—airpower, as he envisioned it, is largely inappropriate. Douhet  denigrated limitations imposed by law and morality and continued to advocate aerochemical  attacks on cities, even after Italy  had ratified the Geneva Protocol  of 1925 that prohibited them. This too showed Douhet ’s pessimistic view of human nature. He was certain that total war would rationalize any type of activity, stating, “He is a fool if not a patricide who would acquiesce in his country’s defeat rather than go against those formal agreements which do not limit the right to kill and destroy, but simply the ways of killing and destroying. The limitations applied to the so-called inhuman and atrocious means of war are nothing but international demagogic hypocrisies.”58 Given the world war hecatomb, it is not surprising that Douhet  was so pessimistic. But as horrendous as was the destruction in World War II , none of the belligerents resorted to gas warfare , although most possessed the means to do so. 59 Moreover, since 1945 several conventions have been held regarding the law of war and have proposed a variety of rulings. Most of these limitations are contained in the Geneva Protocols  of 1977, and although the United States  rejected them, it still follows their basic thrust. 60 This was the case in Operation Desert Storm , when coalition  airmen went to great lengths to restrict the types of targets struck and weapons employed so as to minimize civilian casualties  and collateral damage . Now that precision bombing  has become more  routine, such scrupulous targeting  likely will become standard practice.MEILINGER 25  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 54 --- Another example of Douhet ’s shortsightedness was his failure to forecast advances in surface technology. Despite saying that everything in this world undergoes improvement, he foresaw no evolution in surface weapons and claimed that ground war had reached perpetual e