repeatedly to disburse the funds they promised and that the Army  and Navy suffered the same fate as the Air Corps —but their relative rates of deprivation were worse.) To repeat, however, the point was moot. Nothing could have placated Milling , Sherman , or the ACTS  Bomber Mafia . Nothing could have minimized their adversarial approach, which did periodically lapse into persecution mania. Since the air zealots were “separatists” and Army  traditionalists were “indispensabilists,” they could only agree to disagree. But who or what was a “separatist”? According to aviator Jarred Crabb , it was every man in the Air Corps  who “felt as though they ought to get some bombers , that were able to do something, and separate from the Army .”100 Bomber advocate Haywood Hansell  agreed—the air weapon could be decisive only if it operated outside the tactical restrictions imposed by surface commanders. It was an “inherently” offensive (i.e ., strategic) instrument of war that did not fit preexisting frameworks of land and sea warfare.101 As a result, cooperation in air warfare could only mean an intimate liaison between component parts of an air division—and not with ground troops  or navies. 102 Further, the air division commander needed to administer independent, strategic airpower  “like an opiate [and] in sufficient quantities to paralyze an enemy’s activities in sensitive areas at crucial periods.”103 This, then, was the separatist’s creed, and it was the antithesis of the indispensabilist vision of airpower. As already pointed out, Army  traditionalists truly appreciated military aviation. But like the separatists, they too had a creed, and it included the principles of economy of force and unity of command . To Army  traditionalists like Drum , the lesson of World War I  was that an army must use all available means to work as a single unit towards a single objective in war—victory. In particular, there was only one US Army , and airpower was an indispensable part of t