endent entity but as an integral part of a joint force , with the objective of driving deep into the enemy’s rear with the intention of destroying his armed forces. One finds the most complete exposition of Tukhachevski ’s concept of airpower and the deep battle  in the Soviet army field service regulations of 1936, in which the employment of the air force  plays a central role. These regulations specify in detail the roles of ground-attack aviation , fighter aviation, and light bombers. 51 The air force  had as its first objective the annihilation of the enemy air force, which would then free airpower to act decisively against enemy columns and reserves in the approach and pursuit phases of the battle. 52 Another important aviation mission entailed supporting ground forces by silencing enemy artillery.53 Tukhachevski  did not ignore strategic bombing  in his theories. In 1932 he declared that, in the future, independent air operations, which he defined as strategic bombing  and airborne operations, would prove decisive in war. Tukhachevski  predicted that in the near future, improved aerodynamic design would enable aircraft to fly fast, at great range, and at high altitude. Thus, he foresaw that, in a decade or so, strategic bombing , coupled with airborne drops, could seize the enemy’s rail systems and paralyze the mobilization of enemy forces, thus “turning previous operational concepts inside out.”54 In the years of the civil war (1918–22), the Red Air Force functioned purely as a support and auxiliary force for the army .55 Provisional field regulations of 1925 emphasized support of the ground forces , and in the 1920s most air units were attached to ground units. 56 However, the concept of independent strategic airpower  caught the imagination of the young service’s officers. The most notable early theorist  of Soviet aviation, later chief of staff of the air force, was Gen A. N. Lapchinsky , who in 1920 wrote a book and series of articles outlining how strate