of the air weapon. Given the fragile condition of British ground forces , Trenchard  early defined the offensive character of airpower, concentrating on air superiority  and interdiction . But he also visualized the importance of strategic bombing  and late in the war had the opportunity to organize an independent air force to that end. In contrast to Douhet , he specified appropriate industrial targets  big enough to be identified from the air—evidence of practical realism born of experience. Thus far, Trenchard  would seem to rank as a theorist , resting his ideas on factual evidence, but like so many airpower thinkers, he indulged in visions or even illusions. When he claimed that the psychological effects  of bombing outweighed the material as 20 to one, he was speculating— with no whit of factual evidence to support his contention. If this had been an ill-judged remark casually tossed off, one would attach no great significance to it, but his belief that airpower could break the morale  of enemy populations—which in turn would force the hostile government to sue for peace—became one of his basic tenets. This view of “war [as] largely a psychological effort” (p. 54)2 found its way into Royal Air Force (RAF)  manuals throughout the interwar period—an example of an unsupported belief or supposition becoming the basis of service doctrine. The idea that war was largely a psychological effort reached even more deeply into British thinking. Given the vulnerability of London , so accessible by air from the Continent, and given the British propensity to be repelled by the thought of indiscriminate bombing  of cities (read “women and children”), responsible RAF  officers were at pains to insist that their targets  would be legitimate industrial sites supporting the enemy war effort. Even from the vantage point of hindsight, it is easy to see how completely this line of thinking under- estimated the scope of population control in an authoritarian state. Although RAF  thin