ell ’s “hostile and insubordinate attitude,” adding that his actions were “extremely childish” and “entirely unbecoming of an officer of his age, rank and experience.”31 Pershing  grew weary of such sniping and directed his old friend and West Point  classmate, Maj Gen Mason Patrick , to command the Air Service . Although Patrick  was an engineer and knew little of aviation matters, Pershing  selected him for his leadership and managerial ability. The commanding general’s guidance was succinct: there were some fine people down there in the air arm, but they were “running around in circles.” He wanted Patrick  to make them go straight. 32 This episode was not the last time Mitchell ’s strong personality would cause problems. Most unfortunately, it put him at odds with an airman, Foulois , who was as devoted to the cause of airpower as Mitchell  himself. In the aftermath of the Great War , Mitchell  began to refine his ideas on airpower. His views were intimately tied to the concept of an independent air force , and they also displayed the vestiges of progressivism that remained in postwar America .33 Far more ambitious than his muckrakerCLODFELTER 89  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 118 --- predecessors, Mitchell  aimed to reform the most violent of man’s activities—war. Rifled artillery, the machine gun, and poison gas  had made war an endless nightmare that killed millions, as typified by the unremitting fury of the western front . Technology  was the demon responsible for the slaughter, but, Mitchell  believed, technology  was also the key to salvation. The bomber  would be the instrument of change. Not only would it prevent a naval force from attacking the United States —as he attempted to demonstrate by sinking the German battleship Ostfriesland  with Air Service  bombers  off the Virginia Capes in July 1921—it would obviate trench warfare , achieving a victory that was quicker, cheaper, and hence more humane than one gained by ground combat . The war