ipped with a sophisticated target-acquisition andWINTON 413  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 438 --- night-sensor system, the Apache  was, indeed, a formidable weapons system. But its very effectiveness raised the question of whether the Army  had developed this helicopter  because it did not trust the Air Force  to provide needed CAS . One cannot entirely rule out this hypothesis. However, in the context of the Apache’s development, several other explanations appear at least as operative as lack of interservice trust. First, the Apache represented a logical continuation of attack helicopter development during the Vietnam War . Second, it reflected a belief shared by the Army  and the Air Force  that a Warsaw Pact  invasion of central Europe  demanded the development of a wide variety of antiarmor systems in large numbers. Third, one can view the Apache  as a response to aggressive Soviet development of attack aviation .51 In summary, one sees in the early post-Vietnam  years a deliberate effort on the part of the Army  and the Air Force  to prepare themselves to defend western Europe . The creation of TRADOC  and the conscious use of doctrine  as the device to refashion the Army  in the wake of the Vietnam  trauma drove that service’s effort. In contrast, Air Force basic  doctrine appeared to lack a unifying vision. Nevertheless, the Air Force developed an aircraft tailor-made for killing enemy tanks in Europe , and it carefully assayed both the Warsaw Pact  ground forces  and the physical environment in which it would have to operate to help the Army  defeat them. Finally, the TAC -TRADOC  partnership embodied a promising start at forging cooperation between the two services. Remaining, however, was the troubling issue of restoring the higher-level ground-air interface in the wake of the Army ’s decision to eliminate the field army as an organizational echelon. Strengthening the Partnership, 1980–86 Over the next six years, the Army  significantly revis