onally, the absence of an inhibiting atmosphere greatly extends space-based sensing capability and weapons effects, further complicating the space-security issue. Historically, space support based in the continental United States  has remained more centralized than air-support infrastructure, thus increasing its vulnerability. After defining stealth  as a military term referring to the difficulty of acquiring, locking, and killing a potential target, and after comparing the transient, maneuverable, low-levelTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 562  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 586 --- capabilities of airpower with the predictable, continuous exposure of space assets, one concludes that stealth  is a characteristic advantage of airpower. Summation and Integration of Characteristics To support military decisions regarding the employment of airpower and/or space power , one must integrate capability characteristics in the context of the current situation. An inherent limitation of examining each of these characteristics independently is that, in reality, one must consider them in total. One makes trade-offs between positive and negative attributes in order to determine the correct response, depending on the situation. For example, a skirmish halfway around the world may require immediate response time, light firepower, and extreme precision. A directed-energy, space-to-surface, strike-capable satellite  may provide the appropriate speed of response, but due to its remoteness and weather limitations, the satellite  may not provide the required precision. In terms of the assessment of characteristics, this circumstance is reflected by both space power ’s advantage in speed of response and airpower’s advantage in precision. The decision maker  must trade off these advantages required by the given situation and choose the best approach. As discussed above, planners  often overstate the concept of data fusion , which will not supplant a continued requirement for military geniu