it supports and that, especially in the case of NATO , one must place the wider strategy within its political context. 2 In NATO , Carl von Clausewitz ’s dictum that war is an extension of politics is a day-to-day reality. 3 This chapter seeks to identify the sources and characteristics of NATO air doctrine  and trace its evolution from the beginnings of the alliance to the post-cold-war era. As NATO  expands and becomes engaged in out-of-area missions—such as those conducted in the former Yugoslavia —in the 1990s, its air doctrines  must change to conform to new realities. 4 An understanding of the origins and evolution of the current air doctrine  illuminates the “opportunity set” for this inevitable evolution. Further, the chapter highlights points of divergence and convergence between NATO  and US air doctrines. Briefly stated, NATO air doctrine  reflects the alliance’s three political realities. First, the need to maintain alliance cohesion requires that the alliance look and act defensively, drive for consensus, and consider the United States  as only the first among equals. Second, the alliance must take full cognizance of unique national requirements—for example, British and French autonomy, especially in nuclear  weaponry, and the issue of West Germany ’s reintegration into Europe  in the 443  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 467 --- 1950s and the reunification with East Germany  in the 1990s. Third, the alliance must recognize fiscal restraints that arise from US global commitments and the competition for resources arising from European social welfare commitments. 5 In other words, as Richard L. Kugler  so aptly remarked, one must remember that “strategy comes with a dollar sign.”6 NATO’s air doctrine  also reflects the alliance’s military realities. For most of its history, the alliance confronted a numerically superior foe and geopolitical realities that prevented a military strategy  which traded space for time; the alliance also relied on bot