”15 Even as a mental construct, force application  from space does not begin with the primacy of the offensive. In fact, current technological pursuits and funding emphasize the use of space weapons  in defensive roles—for example, the ongoing discussion about employing space weapons  for ballistic missile  defense. 16 These roles and missions , though sorted, are complementary in practice. Clearly, realm presence , force enhancement , and force support  facilitate realm control  and force application . Moreover, the six generic or “joint” roles and missions  are not unique to airpower and space power  but apply equally to land power  and sea power . Apart from the minor distinction made in the force application  role, the objectives of the roles and missions  of airpower, land power , sea power , and space power  are indistinguishable. Whether or not the means  of prosecuting these objectives are similar or distinctive remains to be seen. Historically, the specific means by which one pursues roles and missions  have distinguished airpower, land power , and sea power . These means traditionally appear as rules of employment, tenets of military power, or capability to achieve the immutable principles of war. To avoid debate, one can use the general term characteristics of military power to accommodate all of these notions. One can place various characteristics of military power in a taxonomy of politics, development and employment, realm access , realm environment , and realm-afforded capability. 17 Such characteristics provide the basis for distinguishing among airpower, land power , and sea power . The purpose here is to determine whether these same characteristics distinguish or unify space power  and airpower. Before proceeding, however, one would do well to briefly examine US space policy . Space Policy Emotional, legal, and rational political considerations directly affect the will to use space power  and, as such,THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 534  File: --- meilinger_ev