combat power. The Gulf War  confirmed the impact of aviation on tactical surprise  and its execution. More importantly, he said that the defensive cast of Soviet military doctrine  implied an air capability able to repel initial attacks and mount its own air operation . He went on to state that this would occur only by protecting the control of the air and giving air commanders the ability to operate independently. 66 General Maliukov  also said that the Gulf War  “constituted a textbook example of what air supremacy  means—both for the country that gained it and for the country ceding it to the opponent.” When asked whether he felt the war reflected a practical application of the American doctrine of AirLand Battle , he answered, I do not think so. There was no classical “air-land battle.” Why? The point is that this war—and here General [Michael] Dugan  comes to mind—was obviously conceived from the outset as an air war  to wear out the opponent by means of air strikes , disorganize his commandFELKER 503  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 527 --- systems, destroy his air defenses , and weaken the ground forces ’ striking power. In terms of the choice of objectives, it was more a case of a classic air offense. And these objectives were achieved. Broadly speaking, this is the first time we have seen a war which aviation took care almost entirely of all the main tasks. 67 The mobility, speed, and accuracy of modern weapons systems are combat multipliers . This factor makes surprise and initiative, especially in the initial period, the most important of all military principles. During the Gulf War , the Soviets defined coalition airpower  as devastating. Maj Gen I. Vorobyev , retired Soviet military scientist, underscored the unique role of airpower when he said it played “the decisive role . . . in destroying the enemy. . . . This has never been demonstrated so clearly in any operation in the past.” 68 He called for a “prompt and fundamental review of existi