t were not completely noble. Years of fiscal stringency had left the RAFMEILINGER 69  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 98 --- with a small and marginally capable force. Although up to the task of air control , it lacked the mass and sophistication required to mount a strategic air campaign  against a major power. The bewildering variety of expansion schemes that began in the mid-1930s as a result of Luftwaffe  growth only confused matters in the short term by adding the requirement for simultaneous growth and training in new equipment. As a consequence, despite 20 years of doctrine  that emphasized the primacy of offensive airpower , the RAF  found itself woefully unprepared to conduct such operations once war broke out. The RAF  therefore was unwilling to throw the first stone when it believed that the Luftwaffe  had a larger supply of bricks near at hand. 77 In addition, Britain —already acutely aware of the necessity of maintaining the friendship and moral support of the United States —knew that indiscriminate bombing  would quickly sour such relations.78 Nonetheless, RAF doctrine  and policy throughout the interwar years—indeed, for the first year of the war—consistently stressed the principle of avoiding civilian noncombatants while concentrating on enemy industry. Unfortunately, the propensity of RAF  thinkers to link this industrial targeting  strategy with the morale  of the enemy nation caused untold confusion to outside observers then and since. There is a tendency to read the history of Bomber Command in World War II  backwards from Dresden  in 1945 to Hugh Trenchard  in 1919. Because Air Chief Marshal Arthur Harris carried out a ruthless and single-minded strategy of urban area bombing  and because he was a protégé of Trenchard , many historians have seen a direct linkage between 1929, when Trenchard  retired, and the assumption of command by Harris  in 1942. 79 This connection seems plausible because the common term tying them together was mor