s promoted back to major general and once again called to keep the rambunctious Mitchell  in line. A wise choice, Patrick  learned to fly at age 60 to enhance his standing with his subordinates and to display his mettle. Upon assuming command, he notified Mitchell  that he would be chief in deed as well as name. When Mitchell  responded with an offer of resignation, Patrick  told him that the offer would be accepted. Mitchell reconsidered. 38 Patrick  realized his deputy’s brilliance and even came to share his views on an independent air force , but he did not appreciate Mitchell ’s unorthodox methods ofCLODFELTER 91  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 120 --- pursuing his goal. Cleverly, Patrick  sent Mitchell  to inspect European air forces to prevent him from disrupting the Washington Naval Conference of 1922 . During this visit, he met and exchanged ideas with leading European airmen, including Giulio Douhet  in Italy . When he returned to Washington  and began making noise again, Patrick dispatched him to the Pacific in early 1924 on a similar mission. During his Pacific trip—a “honeymoon” with his new wife, Elizabeth —Mitchell  visited the Philippines , Dutch East Indies , Siam , India , China , Korea , and Japan . Throughout, he was intrigued by the role airpower would no doubt play should the United States  have to fight in that part of the world. Japan loomed as a possible enemy, and the American Embassy in Tokyo  told him that he could not visit the country in an official capacity. He and his wife traveled extensively as “tourists,” however, and his observations on the Japanese typified the American racism prevalent at the time: The policy of the United States  and, in fact, all of the white countries having their shores washed by the waters of the Pacific Ocean, is to keep their soil, their institutions, and their manner of living free from the ownership, the dominion, and the customs of the Orientals who people the western shores of this the grea