itting agent in creating the carrier  Navy . Although all battleship admirals were by no means as reactionary and opposed to aviation as sometimes pictured, the Ostfriesland  sinking clearly played directly into the hands of the small coterie of naval aviation pioneers. Even the most obdurate mossback admirals could scarcely reject the naval pilots’ contention that the Navy  would be far better off developing its own air arm than allowing the task to slip into the hands of Mitchell  and his congressional allies, who were calling for an independent air service  with a monopoly of all military aviation. The Navy ’s success in developing aviation  appears to hinge on two fortuitous events. The first was the decision to put William Moffett , a “safe” and experienced battleship admiral, in charge of aviation . The second was the unintended consequence of the naval disarmament treaty of 1922. Forced to discontinue construction on two unfinished battle cruisers, the Navy , at the instigation of Moffett , converted these hulls into the carriers  Lexington  and Saratoga . Is it too much to suggest that the doctrinal development and training of naval aviators provided by these two carriers  in the interwar years were crucial to the Navy ’s role in winning the war in the Pacific  in World War II ? By the end of that war, carrier admirals were governing the Navy  in much the same way bomber  generals would govern the Air Force  a few years later. In this respect, one might say that naval aviators wereHOLLEY 583  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 607 --- somewhat more successful than their Air Force  colleagues in bringing their organization and airpower theory together. French aviation  fared badly in World War II . Several factors contributed to this; the political upheavals of the Popular Front  and the labor unrest that followed, as well as the nationalization of the aircraft industry, all took their toll. The root cause, however, lay in the prevailing perception of