ader’s Digest, Mechanix Illustrated,  and Air University Quarterly Review . Finally, he gave hundreds of radio addresses and wrote hundreds more press releases for the news media. All were devoted to the same theme: the importance of airpower to American security. Because he was a civilian, he did not have to worry about angering his military superiors, as did Douhet, Mitchell, Slessor, and others, and because he was a successful aircraft engineer and manufacturer, he spoke with formidable technical authority. Significantly, the target audience of de Seversky’s message was the American public and its elected representatives. He decided that the civilian and military leadership of the country—including that in the Army Air Forces—was too conservative and too dominated by vested interests to be receptive to new ideas. The major, himself a simple and straightforward man, wanted his unfiltered message to reach average Americans so, collectively, they could put pressure on the country’s leadership to change defense policies. De Seversky made “victory through airpower” and “peace through airpower” household terms in America during the 1940s and 1950s. He certainly did not originate ideas about global airpower, its dominance over surface forces, or massive retaliation, but, to a very great extent, he explained and sold those ideas to the public. Despite de Seversky’s many xx  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 19 --- exaggerations, his repetitiveness, and his missteps, there has never been a more effective spokesman for airpower. After de Seversky, airpower thought fell into a funk, where it lay for several decades—not that people ignored the subject, but theorists were writing little that was fresh or innovative. No major figures emerged as airpower thinkers, for a fairly apparent reason. Atomic weapons—and then nuclear weapons—appeared to throw traditional concepts of warfare and strategy out the window. This was virgin territory, and no one quite knew his way—no