riority  at the outset of a campaign. De Seversky  argued that one must seek this key battle for air superiority  as early as possible and conduct it with utmost vigor. Other air theorists , notably Mitchell  and Douhet , had advocated achieving air superiority  by attacking enemy airfields and aircraft factories—not by engaging the air force itself. Their rationale for this approach was twofold: first, before the in vention of radar, forcing an aerial battle was considered nearly impossible. In Douhet ’s formulation, a stronger air force could safely ignore its weaker opponent, and the weaker air force would be foolish to look for a fight it would probably lose.46 Second, they avoided discussion of an air battle  because it tended to contradict one of their basic premises of air warfare —that it eliminated the bloody and prolonged counterforce battle . De Seversky  rejected these arguments. Enjoying the hindsight provided by the first two years of the war, he saw that an air battle  not only could occur but, indeed, generally would. As a consequence, de Seversky  insisted that one must resolve the air battle  sooner rather than later. In fact, he later maintained that the RAF  should not have stopped its daylight bombing  operations and retreated to the safety of night, a decision that did not eliminate the air battle  but merely delayed it. 47 British Bomber Command  eventually suffered greater losses in its night operations than did the American Eighth Air Force  attacking in daylight. Significantly, de Seversky  even implied that air superiority  could become an end in itself: once a country had lost its air force and the enemy could devastate it at will, a rational government would sue for peace. In other words, although de Seversky  claimedMEILINGER 253  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 280 --- that airpower could avoid the type of prolonged battle that occurred between armies, his call for an air battle reintroduced it—only now it would take place a