ic morale and stability through personal contact. I would like to see you familiarize yourself with the literature on this form of warfare. . . . And also remember these two facts: (1) general war poses the primary military threat to the security of the Free World and (2) it is under the umbrella of strategic superiority  that the United States  has freedom of maneuver in the lesser forms of conflict. 37 Two things are striking about this policy letter. First, the broad approach taken to the value of airpower in other than firepower roles is unusual, especially coming from the airman most closely associated with strategic bombing doctrine , nuclear weapons , and SAC . The second notable point is the continuing reference to strategic superiority  and freedom of maneuver in “lesser” wars rather than “different” wars. Even at this late date, with personnel already deployed to Vietnam in the Farmgate  program, the Air Force  still regarded insurgent warfare  as a lesser, rather than fundamentally different, form of warfare. On 21 September 1962, Brig Gen Gilbert L. Pritchard , commandant of the new Special Air Warfare Center , spoke at a symposium on limited war  and counterinsurgency  held asTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 332  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 358 --- part of the Air Force Association  national convention. Later published by the Air Force , Pritchard ’s speech provided an accurate primer on the classic concepts of insurgent warfare and called for the close coordination and cooperation of airpower with other forms of military power and with nonmilitary government agencies in a comprehensive and integrated campaign—including civic actions and “nation-building .”38 Personnel at the Special Air Warfare Center  were doing their homework. Just as clearly, interest by US airmen in insurgency  and counterinsurgency  began to grow. The establishment of the Special Air Warfare Center , the publication of information policy letters, the symposium held by the Air Fo