ory through Air Power  into a movie.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 256  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 283 --- The famed cartoon filmmaker wished to contribute to the war effort by making military training films. Donald Duck went to war to fight the Nazi menace, Mickey Mouse admonished people to pay their taxes promptly, and military units sported over twelve hundred military insignia bearing Disney cartoon characters. 56 Disney  himself later said that he had had a deep interest in aviation for years and “sensed that air power held the key to the outcome of this war.” 57 Although millions of people had read the major’s book, Disney  realized that millions of others had not, and his unique ability to use visual images and cartoons would serve to educate them as well. Disney  believed he would probably lose money on the movie but stated, “I’m concerned that America  should see it, and now is no time to think of personal profits.” 58 The movie, which opened on 17 July 1943, begins with a cartoon introduction to the history of flight up to World War II . The picture then switches to de Seversky , shown in his office surrounded by world maps, airplane models, and blueprints. The major relates his message of airpower and its importance to modern war. 59 Superb graphics illustrate his ideas. Nazi Germany  is depicted as a huge iron wheel with factories at the hub, pumping planes, tanks, ships, and other war equipment out the spokes for use along the thick rim. Allied armies chip away at this rim by attacking individual tanks and planes, but the Nazis react by simply redirecting war material from one spoke to another to counter the threat; the rim is too strong to break. Aircraft then bomb the factories of the hub directly, destroying them and causing the spokes to weaken and the rim to collapse. In another particularly memorable sequence, Disney  animates the book’s depiction of Japan  as an octopus with its tentacles stretched across the Pacific, encircling dozens of he