rbed wire and covered by mass artillery and machine guns.” 39 Another senior air leader, Air Commodore Edgar Ludlow-Hewitt , stated flatly that population bombing amounted to “sheer unintelligent frightfulness based on the same kind of false doctrine which, in common with all attempts to win by terrorising civilians, has ended in failure. It is a senseless, inhuman method of warfare which I believe will never succeed against any nation of stamina and spirit.” 40 Wing Commander Arthur Tedder  (later Marshal of the Royal Air Force  Lord Tedder) similarly argued, “Terrorising of enemy people as a whole by indiscriminate bombing  does not comply with principles of concentration. It is morally indefensible, politically inexpedient and militarily ineffective.” 41 One must note that the RAF  opposed bombing other than legitimate military targets  not merely for humanitarianTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 56  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 85 --- reasons. Public opinion played a significant role, as did the purely practical matter of urban bombing ’s inefficiency. Because gas warfare  had been outlawed in 1925, the amount of high explosive necessary to cause significant damage to a major city was enormous. Given the modest size of the RAF and its bomber aircraft , pilots would do better to drop their payloads on specific targets. Moreover, Britain  felt particularly vulnerable to air attack  because its key center of gravity  was, unquestionably, London . The concentration of political, financial, social, and industrial power in the London  area made it the most valuable target in the country. Worse, its proximity to the English Channel  put it within easy striking range of air bases on the Continent. The fear of a “bolt from the blue” against London  preoccupied British political and military leaders from the early 1920s on. In 1932 former prime minister Stanley Baldwin  made his glum prediction that the bomber  would always get through. He added his pessimistic assessment