ALFA  successfully resolved many of the tactical and procedural issues regarding air- ground interface on a highly lethal battlefield. A TRADOC -US Army  Forces Command (FORSCOM) -TAC  publication addressed airspace management—successfully tested in the Return of Forces to Germany (REFORGER)  exercise of 1976. 39 The agency also produced a comprehensive volume on the Soviet air defense  threat and a study of this system’s vulnerabilities. 40 In September 1977, tests under ALFA ’s aegis conducted at Fort Benning, Georgia , evaluated techniques for the combined use of attack helicopters  and A-10  aircraft against enemy ground formations. ALFA  also produced aWINTON 411  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 436 --- study examining ways to counter the emerging threat of the Soviet Hind helicopter  and prepared plans for the Fighter Weapons Center  at Nellis AFB  and the Combined Arms Center (CAC)  at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas , to develop and evaluate specific antihelicopter tactics. 41 At higher levels, however, ALFA  could not bridge the gap between Army  and Air Force  views on air-ground cooperation . The genesis of the problem was Abrams ’s decision in 1973 to eliminate the field army as an echelon of army organization. The demobilization of the Army  and the elimination of the peacetime draft at the end of the Vietnam War  led to a precipitous reduction in Army  manpower. In order to satisfy Congress  with an acceptable “tooth-to-tail” ratio and stabilize the Army ’s force structure, Abrams  struck an agreement with Secretary of Defense James Schlesinger  to retain 16 divisions on active duty in return for a guaranteed force of roughly 785,000. To hold up his end of the bargain, Abrams  had to do two things: (1) put a major portion of the support structure into the reserves (which also acted as a prophylactic against the Army  being called to war in the future without a reserve call-up) and (2) cut manpower at command levels above the division. Ergo, the fie