f the operational level of war articulated in the 1982 and 1988 editions of FM 100-5, it at least demonstrated a preliminary vision for how air and ground forces might cooperate at this level. However, divergences of perspective remained about air-ground interface: although the interdepartmental position paper on OAS  apparently resolved these differences, they continued to boil beneath the surface. Crosscurrents, 1987–90 From 1987 to 1990, the Army –Air Force  partnership continued to mature. Two developments, however, one in each service, influenced the partnership in ways not immediately apparent. The first was the Army ’s effort to develop a detailed doctrine for the corps’s conduct of deep battle ; the second was the publication of a National Defense University thesis entitled “The Air Campaign: Planning for Combat,” written by a relatively obscure Air Force  colonel named John Warden . The continuation of a number of biservice projects reflected the strength of the Army –Air Force  partnership. By December 1987, TRADOC  and TAC , operating under the aegis of the 31 initiatives, developed a draft summary of requirements for a follow-on to the A-10  as a CAS  aircraft. 96 By 1988 the services estimated that their joint force-development initiatives had resulted in a savings of $1 billion dollars in cost avoidance. 97 Additionally, they had reached agreement on concepts for joint attack of Soviet helicopters, the alignment of air liaison officers and forward air controllers with Army  maneuver units, and a follow-on to the JSEAD manual of 1982. An article entitled “The Air Force, the Army, and the Battlefield of the 1990s” by Gen Robert D. Russ , Creech ’s successor at TAC , provided further indication of institutional solidarity. HereWINTON 425  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 450 --- Russ  stated categorically that “everything that tactical air  does directly supports Army  operations.”98 Meanwhile, the Army  was hard at work developing guidelines to