rom one place to another. Airlift  and space lift  are similar in this regard. A fundamental difference, however, exists between the two. Physical access  to the space realm is the objective of space lift , while the objective of airlift  is not one of physical access to the air realm but one of delivering materials to different points on the ground. Two technological methods for gaining space access  are afoot: better propulsion and lighter payloads. Each appears to hold promise; indeed, an entire community has dedicated itself to achieving physical access to space . Such access to the air and space realms remains distinct and affects both operations and maintenance/ support. Physical Access to the Realm (Operations) Intense efforts are under way to overcome the very daunting task of cheap, on-demand access  to space—a task that is orders of magnitude more complex and fundamentally different than that which allowed access to the skies. Regardless of technical advances, access  to the space realm requires mastery of the air and space realms, which is inherently much more difficult than the mere mastery of the air realm. Access to the realm (operations) is a characteristic advantage of airpower. Physical Access to the Realm (Maintenance and Support) The maintainability and supportability aspects of airpower depend upon a ground -based infrastructure that deals with assets on the ground . Maintainability and supportability of space power , at least for the foreseeable future, require a ground -based infrastructure to  deal with assets orbiting in space. In addition to this complication, space systems  are technically more complicated than air systems and will require more sophisticated maintenance and support operations. The real problem, though, lies in fixing these technologically advanced spaceborne systems  when they fail. That task often requires access  that is far and away more difficult than returning an aircraft to the maintenance shop. 42 In addition toDEBLO