the absence of prohibitions.” C. Christol, The Modern International Law of Outer Space (New York: Pergamon Press, 1982), 59–60. 22. “Legal writers differ greatly in their views of the effect that the outbreak of war between parties to a treaty has on that instrument. A general statement on the subject would have to mention that certain treaties, such as those regulating the conduct of hostilities, actually come into full effect at the outbreak of war; that treaties of friendship or alliance, as well as all other agreements classifiable as political in nature, concluded between opposing belligerents prior to a war, come to an end at the beginning of the conflict; that nonpolitical agreements are suspended for the duration of the conflict; and that a certain few types of treaties involving matters such as private property rights and possibly also boundary agreements not related to frontiers involved in the conduct of hostilities remain in force during the war. Similarly, agreements that by their very nature were final in character would not be affected at all by the outbreak of war.” Gerhard von Glahn, Law among Nations: An Introduction to Public International Law (New York: Collier-Macmillan, 1981), 623–24. 23. Air University (AU)-18, Space Handbook: A Warfighter’s Guide to Space, vol. 1, December 1993, 41. 24. Several well-known texts include G. Allison’s Essence of Decision (New York: HarperCollins, 1971); and J. March’s A Primer on Decision Making (New York: Free Press, 1994). 25. Not published as official US space policy, the unilateral move not to fund the production of ASAT weapons and their testing in space occurred in the late 1980s in response to a similar move by the Soviets. Current US funding decisions do not favor the weaponization of space. 26. National Space Policy,  National Security Directive 30 (Washington, D.C.: Office of the White House Press Secretary, 2 November 1989). 27. Department  of Defense Space Policy (Washington, D.C.: Government Printin