to demonstrate the Air Force ’s relevance in the post-Vietnam  era. It listed eight combat operational missions: strategic attack , counterair , AI, CAS , aerospace defense of the United States ,WINTON 407  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 432 --- aerospace surveillance  and reconnaissance , airlift , and special operations . It also provided the stock definitions of and commentary on AI  and CAS  operations, the former defined as those “conducted to destroy, neutralize or delay enemy ground or naval forces  before they can be brought to bear against friendly forces.” Aerospace forces engaging in interdiction  had to be capable of timely response to fleeting point and area targets. CAS  operations were “intended to provide responsive, sustained and concentrated firepower of great lethality and precision . . . in close integration with the fire and maneuver of surface forces .” However, nothing in this edition of AFM 1-1 indicated that the conditions for executing AI  and CAS  had recently undergone radical transformation or that close cooperation with the Army , particularly in the area of the suppression of enemy air defenses (SEAD) , had become a key element in the Air Force ’s ability to conduct these operations without suffering unacceptable losses. 22 The 1979 edition of AFM 1-1 did little, if anything, to improve this situation. Now widely derided by airpower analysts, the manual prompted one informed critic to refer to it as “the nadir of Air Force doctrine .”23 Despite this criticism, it contained some useful elements. The closing chapter offered a concise summary of the evolution of Air Force doctrine  and a selected bibliography of publications dealing with military history and strategy , NATO  and joint doctrine , and international relations . In perusing this list, however, one is struck by the fact that it does not include a single  work dealing with the strategic, operational, or tactical employment of airpower! One is even more struck by the