–30 NATO  divisions would screen the attack until US strategic air forces could arrive to deliver an atomic interdiction  blow against the invaders. NATO  would then launch a ground offensive to recover lost territory and even free eastern Europe . MC 14/2 (1957) dropped the latter requirement, assuming that a nuclear attack  would leave nothing worth liberating. 20 The strategy of 1957 also paved the way for stationing in Europe  what later became known as theater nuclear forces. 21 Although planners  still accepted NATO ’s inferiority in conventional power, they recognized that the bulk of Soviet forces were in fact stationed in the USSR  and would take some time to move forward. This fact, plus the economic imperatives of providing for defense at minimum cost, 22 led to an acceptance of a “sword and shield” strategy whereby permanently stationed troops would guard against a surprise or rogue attack (the shield) while in-theater nuclear forces would threaten follow-on Soviet forces (the sword). 23 One can hardly overestimate the impact of nuclear weapons on NATO’s military strategy .24 On the one hand, they made up for NATO ’s numerical inferiority in conventional forces. On the other, they permitted NATO  to accept that gap in the capability of its conventional forces in relation to the Warsaw Pact . Furthermore, they presented a deterrent posture that appealed to the European public. Finally, they promised defense at lower cost, which appealed to every NATO  member. 25 This military strategy  channeled NATO’s air strategy  to achieve three tasks in the early days of war: (1) secure the initial deployment within the alliance from air attack , (2)MCCRABB 447  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 471 --- protect ports for the follow-up deployment of US and Canadian forces, and (3) preserve subsequent NATO  ground forces ’ freedom of maneuver. At the same time, however, NATO  recognized a need to attack Warsaw Pact second-echelon forces and even airfields. How