. . But responsibility for the end results [of the General Staff] has been understated. The situation is different now. . . . Many difficult problems that the troops are encountering today can be traced back, with careful analysis, to our lack of foresight, our shortsightedn ess. . . . TheTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 508  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 532 --- new nature of the tasks now being resolved requires the development of creative activeness on the part of all directorates and every official; it requires initiative and inquisitiveness in work.” 85 Emerging Russian Post–Gulf War Military Doctrine The Soviets had to respond to many internal and external political, economic, and social disruptions in the late 1980s and early 1990s, one such response involving a review and revision of their military doctrine . The “crowning blow” may have been their reaction to the Gulf War  in light of all the other internal and external changes under way. The Gulf War showed that planning for a counterattack, as Gorbachev ’s defensive doctrine  dictated, required the Soviets to react instead of act. To the Soviets, this was an unacceptable form of action in light of their Gulf War  assessment of an era of high-tech weapons .86 In May 1992, the Russian High Command released a new draft of military doctrine  by publishing it in Voennaia mysl, their foremost armed forces theoretical journal. 87 In November 1993, the Russians formalized this effort by releasing the approved doctrine  in Rossiyskiye Vesti (Russian News) .88 The new doctrine  established the prevention of war as the fundamental goal of security policy of the Russian Federation . It also established a system of views regarding the organization of the armed forces, the country’s defense preparations, the countermeasures to threats to the state’s military security, and the utilization of the armed forces of the Russian Federation . As in prior military doctrines  of the former Soviet Union , the effort stated that o