the United States  because it forced other NATO countries to face a unified doctrinal front from America .102MCCRABB 467  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 491 --- Conclusions NATO ’s first priority has always been alliance cohesion; its second, a deferral to national preferences—witness the initial decision to sacrifice operational depth of maneuver in favor of forward defense along the inter-German border (IGB)  and the preponderance of European air forces still deployed in their home countries. One also sees these priorities in the deployment of NATO ’s ground forces  (and the subsequent strain that placed on NATO ’s air forces), which is more a reflection of postwar occupation areas than militarily viable defensive positions. The third priority of the alliance remains the strict maintenance of the image and reality of a defensive organization, which enhances alliance cohesion in several ways. For instance, every nation can agree on the defense. Offensive operations imply an out-of-area objective, specifically rejected by NATO  from its inception. From the mid-1950s on, liberating eastern Europe  or even East Germany  was never an overt objective. Further, presuming that defensive forces are less expensive than offensive ones, this strategy eases the fiscal burdens of European members—an especially critical point in the 1950s, when Europe  was rebuilding from the ashes of World War II . Also, a defensive posture remains critical to maintaining stability in Europe  because it denies anyone an excuse to launch an attack against the alliance. NATO ’s force structure, deployment posture, and air doctrines  reflect these priorities. From its founding, the alliance has employed a threefold air strategy . The first priority, air defense , did not imply air superiority as the USAF defines it. Air planners  never foresaw gaining command of the air but focused more narrowly on achieving security against a Warsaw Pact  air attack  on NATO ’s ports and major lines o