orce does not win a war; moral force does not win a war; physical force does not win a war; but what does  win a war is the highest combination of these three forces acting as one force” (emphasis in original). 5 This threefold order proves useful in beginning to understand the essence of strategic paralysis . Paralysis  of an adversary consists of physical, mental, and moral dimensions. As a strategy, it entails the nonlethal intent to physically disable and mentally disorient an enemy so as to induce his moral collapse. Although nonlethal intent does not necessarily preclude destructive action or prevent fatal results, it does seek to minimize these negative outcomes as much as possible. 6 These physical, mental, and moral effects may be short or long term, as required by one’s grand strategy. Put another way, strategic paralysis  aims at the enemy’s physical and mental capabilities to indirectly engage and defeat his moral will .7 In addition to his threefold order, Fuller  offers another theoretical proposition in Foundations that helps define strategic paralysis . Appropriate for any scientist of war, Fuller establishes a variety of battle principles to assist his students of military strategy . The overriding principle that governs the conduct of war—the “law” from which he derives nine subordinate principles—is economy of force . What this law contributes to the definition of strategic paralysis  is the concept of expending minimum effort to produce maximum effect—something Paris did quite well against his nemesis Achilles.FADOK 359  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 384 --- Having constructed a partial definition of paralysis  (a three-dimensional strategy characterized by nonlethal intent and force economization), we can now examine this notion in light of Delbruck ’s typology, to further refine our concept by demonstrating what strategic paralysis  is not. In a truly seminal work with a distinct Clausewitzian  flavor, Delbruck presents a comprehen