e who favored economic  targets displayed a surprising lack of effort in defining and refining their target folders. This, in turn, suggests the generally flawed character of air-arm intelligence  efforts. Yet another common thread that runs through the history of airpower theory is the Icarus Syndrome , mentioned earlier. The enthusiasm of pilots for flying, although understandable in itself, has led to a persistent downgrading and neglect of many supporting aspects of the air weapon. The stunting of bomber  self-defense during the interwar years offers a classic illustration, as does the treatment of logisticians and other groundlings in the same period. But the most striking instance of the Icarus Syndrome  is the Air Force ’s long delay in putting major resources into missiles . One may well ask whether the resistance of so many people to the acceptance of space weapons  as a logical extension of the Air Force  sphere of operations is yet another manifestation of the lack of rigor in the service’s professional education  system. Finally, can any survey of airpower be truly comprehensive if it neglects to consider the role of carrier aviation  and submarine-launched  strategic missiles? Interservice rivalry  is a valuable goad to progress. True, it can be wastefully duplicative, but one should never overlook the value of competition. The airplane has been around for nearly one hundred years, but, given its remarkable potential, surely one is surprised byTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 598  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 622 --- the dearth of really comprehensive thinkers and theorists  on airpower. Science and technology  have made enormous strides—putting people on the Moon and precision-guided weapons  into the third window to the left in the designated target—but has our professional military education  system kept pace? The more than nine decades of air-arm thought depicted in this volume lead to one rather obvious conclusion: airpower theory, aerospace power