DA loop. 28. By “folding an opponent back inside himself,” Boyd simply means restricting an opponent’s ability to reorient to a rapidly changing environment. 29. Boyd, “The Strategic Game of ? and ?” in “A Discourse on Winning and Losing,” 10. 30. Boyd’s dialectic process of destruction and creation corresponds fairly well to the modern scientific literature on genius. In “The Puzzle of Genius,” Newsweek, 28 June 1993, 121, Sharon Begley suggests that genius rests in the ability to combine in novel ways elements from seemingly unrelated fields. Interestingly, Boyd’s analysis/synthesis also correlates with the bihemispheric organization of the human mind as indicated by modern split-brain research. Pioneered by the California Institute of Technology’s R. W. Perry, psychologist and cowinner of the 1981FADOK 391  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 416 --- Nobel Prize, this research suggests a division of labor between the left and right cerebral hemispheres of the brain. As Jan Ehrenwald explains in Anatomy of Genius  (New York: Human Sciences Press, 1984), the left side is analytic and rational in its thinking, focusing on the trees. In contrast, the right side is holistic and artistic, focusing on the forest. He then states that concerted evidence supports a combined left- and right-hemispheric approach to the mental process we call genius (pages 14–19). R. Ochse offers a similar definition of creative genius in Before the Gates of Excellence (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1990). It involves bringing something into being that is original (new, unusual, novel, and unexpected) and valuable (useful, good, adaptive, and appropriate). 31. This is precisely why Boyd claims that orientation remains the most important portion of the OODA loop. 32. Pape has introduced a methodology for analyzing strategic theories, particularly those dealing with the application of coercive airpower. Very simply, his approach links military means to political ends by way of “