e application]). c. force enhancement  (acquire and operate navigation, meteorology, tactical warning and assessment, nuclear detonation detection, and multiuser communications systems). d. space support  (provide launch support). 28 The policies do not read congruently; that is, the national space  policy reads as if it is of the Sanctuary School (subtly leaving an option to weaponize), while the DOD  and Air Force policies read as Space Control School perspectives, anticipating space weaponization . Air Force policy  even seems to suggest that current space control doctrine  might appropriately shift to a high-ground doctrine in the future. 29 Although the policies are not congruent, they make sense. National policy  typically reflects the posture of where the United States  would like to see the world community proceed, while DOD  and service policies reflect the military’s role of anticipating and preparing for aggressive action in defense of US national security interests. Political Characteristics of Military Power Three characteristics of military power that directly affect political decisions regarding the use of a particular realm include political access to the realm, sovereignty, and the likelihood of reduced casualties . Political access refers to domestic and international attitudes and agreements that have the potential of inhibiting access to a particular realm. Sovereignty  addresses the issue of national claims in the realm, whereas likelihood of reduced casualties  concerns the emerging idea that a combination of (1) precision lethality bolstered by technology  and (2) the media’s access to the battlefield has reduced American and international tolerances of casualties .THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 540  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 564 --- Political Access to the Realm Political access to the realm does not show up in current literature on airpower, land power , and sea power  because in times of crisis, people rarely call into question the po