in NATO . In one sense, FOFA  was merely an extension of the long-standing NATO  doctrine of AI .70 However, two of its implications disturbed many NATO members. First, FOFA  implied early border-crossing authority (something it held in common with OCA  operations)—a highly sensitive issue within NATO , especially for the West Germans.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 458  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 482 --- Second, some nations voiced concern that FOFA  would draw air resources away from operations such as counterair  or CAS /BAI —essential missions in the early days of a massive Warsaw Pact  attack. 71 Finally, many NATO  members remained skeptical over whether these “smart” technologies would work or, even if they did, thought that the Soviets would quickly (and inexpensively) find countermeasures to them. NATO  OAS  doctrine  deals extensively with BAI  and CAS procedures for requests, approval, planning  (especially targeting ), controlling, and execution. ATP-27 provides the clearest example of the different levels of detail found in NATO , as opposed to US, doctrine . From one perspective, NATO doctrine  is written for “generals to captains” or from the “operational to the tactical level.” For example, ATP-27 includes organizational diagrams and flowcharts outlining how OAS  requests (both preplanned and immediate) 72 are processed, planned, and decided—an essentially operational- level process. It also provides detailed tactical procedures and techniques, including holding patterns for forward air controllers, tactics for attack aircraft , and standardized terminology. Aside from its level of detail, ATP-27 specifies that one can initiate OAS  requests from “any land force  level of command” (emphasis added),73 which emphasizes the support  part of OAS . However, it also calls for the planning of OAS  as a joint air and ground responsibility accomplished at the ACOC —envisioned as part of the joint command operations center found at the ATAF /army group lev