to the hands of people who believed that “atomic airpower” couldDREW 327  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 353 --- deter all forms of warfare and, if deterrence  failed, could quickly defeat any enemy. 14 Nuclear strategists , nuclear deterrence theorists , and Strategic Air Command (SAC) dominated US thinking and military forces. In all of this, one assumed that preparation for global war  meant preparation for wars of lesser magnitude. As demonstrated in the Philippines , Malaya , and Indochina , the problem was not wars of a lesser kind but wars of a fundamentally different kind. The struggles in Southeast Asia  did spark some interest in the professional military literature, although far less than the major themes of “lessons” from World War II  and Korea , the Soviet confrontation in Europe , and nuclear subjects. French general G. J. M. Chassin , air officer commanding, Far East, published an important article in an English language journal in late 1952 that dealt exclusively with the ongoing use of French airpower  in Indochina . Although he failed to address the fundamental differences between conventional  and insurgent warfare , he did offer insights (prophetically for US airmen a decade hence) into appropriate command structures, close support and interdiction  missions, and the extreme difficulty of finding guerrilla targets: In the tactical field the chief characteristic of the war in Indochina  is the invisibility of the enemy. . . . Here there are no columns on the march . . . no convoys of vehicles. . . . Once outside the controlled zone, there is not a soul to be seen in the fields. When an aircraft flies over a village, the latter empties itself completely, even the domestic animals taking cover. It needs an unusual degree of skill and experience to detect the presence of Vietminh  troops in the mountains and forests, where they live under perfect camouflage. 15 The professional journal of the US Air Force published only two significant a