and reconnaissance (BCR) aircraft  would carry out reconnaissance  and ground attack  for the army  yet could carry out strategic bombing  attacks as well. Indeed, some French air force  officers openly acknowledged that designating BCR  units as reconnaissance  units provided the only means of building up the bomber force. 11 Only France seriously put this aspect of Douhet ’s theory into practice. In this instance, however, the theory failed. Designed for several missions, BCRs  were not particularly effective at any one of them. The BCR  program resulted in a series of thoroughly mediocre aircraft, many of which were still in service in 1940, when they served as cannon fodder for German fighters .12 The most original of the French interwar air  theorists was Pierre Cot , who served two terms as air minister—from January 1933 to February 1934 and from January 1936 to 1938. Cot  was a socialist member of Parliament and a wartime pilot who was passionately devoted to airpower. During his tenure, he attempted to build a modern strategic air force  to match the German Luftwaffe  and to create a foundation for the rearmament of l’armée de l’air . By 1934 the moribund French air force  was far behind the Luftwaffe in technical development and airpower potential. Cot , however, pushed numerous other programs in addition to his attempts to establish a strategic air force , one of the first of which involved improving the aviation infrastructure, particularly the navigation and instrumentation capabilities of the air force and civil aviation. 13 In the popular Cot , French airmen for the first time had a champion willing to speak out forcefully and advocate the need for fundamental reforms. 14THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 154  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 182 --- Cot’s primary accomplishment during his first term as air minister was the creation of Plan I —France’s first program for a comprehensive aerial rearmament. Although Cot enthusiastically believed in the primacy