say that being able to kill weapons is bad, while being able to kill people is good. States whose populations are held hostage by the adversary will have to be nonaggressive. US-Soviet arms control  talks particularly emphasized restricting the numbers of MIRVed ICBMs , although progress was slow until the late 1980s. 76 This produces some counterintuitive results with respect to strategic defenses . Since the vulnerability of weapons is destabilizing, measures that increase their survivability—such as mobility, hardening, and point-defense ABMs —contribute to deterrence and to strategic stability. On the other hand, measures such as civil defense  preparations and area-defense ABMs , which reduce the vulnerability of cities and other countervalue targets , are destabilizing because they threaten the adversary’s second-strike  assured destruction  capability. For the latter reason, among others, ABMs  were an earlyMUELLER 303  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 329 --- target of nuclear arms control  efforts and were one of the first categories of strategic weapons virtually banned by agreement between the superpowers. 77 Sometimes explanations of the relationship between offense and defense in the nuclear world state that nuclear weapons reverse the traditional order of things—that defenses become offensive. This statement is partially correct: strategic defenses  do facilitate a nuclear first strike  if they reduce—or if the enemy believes they reduce—his assured destruction capability. This is especially true of imperfect defenses that would be more useful for intercepting a retaliatory  attack by a crippled foe than for stopping a coordinated first strike . However, one cannot say that BMD , air defenses , and civil defense  are not defensive; by limiting expected damage in the event of war, they do provide defense. Rather, they tend to be antideterrent by encouraging an enemy to attack preventively before one can deploy or improve them—or preemptively b