ansfer fuel from one aircraft to another in flight. Combat had taught him that bombardment aircraft were vulnerable to enemy fighter planes; thus, one needed escort  fighters to provide protection to the bombers . However, the smaller fighters  did not have the range to escort bombers  all the way to the target and back. Air refueling  offered a solution. Although his wartime superiors would not allow him to experiment with such a device at theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 242  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 269 --- time, de Seversky  revisited the idea when he worked with the Air Service , producing an innovative air refueling  device used on the “Question Mark” flight of 1929, when an Air Corps aircraft remained aloft for seven days. 11 In 1927 de Seversky became a naturalized US citizen and received his commission as a major in the Air Corps Reserve . He was always quite proud of regaining military rank and for the rest of his life preferred to be called “major.” In 1931 he founded Seversky Aircraft Corporation  and over the next decade perfected a host of patents and designs, including split flaps, metal monocoque construction, a fire-control unit for aircraft guns, retractable landing gear and pontoons, and specialized aircraft flight instruments. 12 He had obvious talent for design, his innovative SEV-3  amphibian setting world speed records in 1933 and 1935. Derivations of this model became the BT-8  (the first all-metal monoplane trainer built in the United States ) and the noted P-35 . The P-35  was the first all-metal monoplane fighter mass-produced in the United States , incorporating such innovations as an enclosed cockpit, retractable landing gear, and cantilever wings. The Air Corps  purchased 137 P-35s,  the direct ancestor of the famed P-47 Thunderbolt .13 The P-35 featured two other unusual characteristics. First, it was extremely fast; a civilian version of it won the Bendix Air Race in 1937, 1938, and 1939. 14 Considering the fact that contempor