wer  began unequally. The idea of a debate implies that the Air Service already had a well-reasoned, universal set of principles about the proper use of airpower, particularly in war. In reality, this was not true either. After the armistice , the US Army Air Service  not only lacked a coherent, working set of propositions on the proper use of military aviation , but also lacked a coherent theory, strategy , and doctrine  upon which airmen could base the future development of American airpower. 12 InFABER 185  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 212 --- other words, the Air Service  had yet to codify itself in any meaningful way; it still awaited the types of Progressivist reforms that Elihu Root  had introduced to the “Old Army” at the turn of the century. 13 Because of the above problems, the Air Service  was clearly in a difficult position. Would it survive its own demobilization— and, by extension, the growing parsimony and isolationism  of postwar America? Would it shape its own intellectual destiny, ranging from basic operating principles through a working theory of airpower, or would it remain under the strict control of the Army ’s “old guard,” who largely dismissed airpower as airborne reconnaissance  or artillery ? As long as these questions remained open, the Air Service  was vulnerable to the depredations of Army  traditionalists, who responded to free-thinking airmen like Billy Mitchell  with open suspicion, if not outright hostility. (General Pershing , for example, once attributed Mitchell ’s zealotry to an insidious “Bolshevik bug.”) 14 Additionally, a delimited and ill-defined Air Service  was in danger of never realizing what the “dervishes of airpower” wanted most—coequal status with the Army  and Navy  and a doctrine  ultimately committed to independent strategic bombardment against the vital centers  of an enemy state. To resolve the above questions favorably and to ensure that American airpower  realized its full potential, early air lea