adequately respond to the challenge presented by Ho Chi Minh , implying that the Air Force  could fight only a major war.35 The first concrete actions taken in response to the threat of protracted revolutionary warfare  included the establishment of the 4400th Combat Crew Training Squadron (CCTS)  at Eglin AFB, Florida , in April 1961, followed by its absorption into the newer and larger Special Air Warfare Center  at the same location in April 1962. Both actions came only after direct prodding by the Kennedy  administration, which considered the threat of insurgent warfare  very real.DREW 331  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 357 --- The 4400th CCTS , nicknamed Jungle Jim , trained foreign airmen and at the same time developed appropriate counterinsurgency  tactics and techniques. In late 1961, Jungle Jim  elements deployed to Vietnam  in Operation Farmgate . The Special Air Warfare Center  had essentially the same mission as Jungle Jim  but was considerably larger and better organized to develop specialized tactics, techniques, and procedures. 36 At the same time (April 1962), Gen Curtis E. LeMay , Air Force  chief of staff, took official notice of the budding insurgency /guerrilla warfare  problem in the publication Air Force Information Policy Letter for Commanders . Here, he discussed not only the ability of airpower to concentrate firepower quickly but also other advantages that airpower could bring to such struggles: Air forces also are essential in the fast transport and resupply of counterinsurgent forces, as well as in providing reconnaissance , leaflet delivery and defense against insurgent air activities. To the central government of the nation under insurgent attack, airpower provides quick access to all parts of the country so it can maintain civic morale and stability through personal contact. I would like to see you familiarize yourself with the literature on this form of warfare. . . . And also remember these two facts: (1) general war pos