nologically advanced spaceborne systems  when they fail. That task often requires access  that is far and away more difficult than returning an aircraft to the maintenance shop. 42 In addition toDEBLOIS 549  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 573 --- the cost of access , one requires significant technological improvements in communications, rendezvous docking, and space-robot technology  for future resupply activities in space. 43 No matter the state of technological advance, the maintainability and supportability of space systems  as compared to that of air systems are destined to be much more technically difficult, as well as much more costly. Access to the realm (maintenance and support) is a characteristic advantage of airpower. Realm-Environment Characteristics of Military Power Methods of operations within the air and space realms are drastically different. The underlying cause of this difference lies in the unique composition, size, and position of the respective realms—characteristics that have significant impact on the employment of military power. Composition of the Realm Space is both a more threatening environment to life and a more difficult environment in which to operate. The fundamental difference between air and space is composition: air is a medium of substance, whereas space is void of substance. Altitude provides the one measure that correlates with the presence of that substance which defines our atmosphere. Air density drops off exponentially with altitude, 44 as does a human’s ability to exist and function there (table 1). If the lack of necessary elements for human survival is not threatening enough, the presence of harmful elements ought to be. Although mass in space is rare, energy is not. The most dangerous effect of solar radiation is its capacity to produce heat. Since a satellite  in space is thermally isolated, it has no natural means to vent excess energy absorbed from the sun. Without the screening and natural cooling capabil