ficent individual performers. Each had equipped and trained itself to play its part as a virtuoso. Each had also listened to the other enough to recognize how they could most harmoniously blend their effects in a number of specific passages. But underlying philosophical differences about the nature of their activity and certain matters of interpretation had the potential to produce discordance. The quality of the performance, therefore, would depend somewhat upon the venue in which it took place. The acoustical properties of someTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 432  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 457 --- theaters would tend to magnify the harmony, while those of others could just as easily emphasize the discordance. From 1973 to 1990, the Army  and the Air Force  formed a solid partnership centered around the Army ’s ability to execute its AirLand Battle  doctrine with Air Force  support. Extensive biservice training, doctrinal publications, and programmatic cooperation reflected the strength of this partnership. There existed, however, an underlying ambivalence that one can attribute primarily to the services’ diverging perspectives about the modalities of air-ground cooperation at the operational level of war. Had war broken out in western Europe , one might argue that the strengths of the partnership would have proved much more apparent than its weaknesses. However, the ambivalent aspects of the partnership became rather more apparent in the weeks and months after 2 August 1990, when Saddam Hussein ’s tanks rolled into Kuwait , triggering the American-led coalition ’s responses of Operations Desert Shield  and Desert Storm . This theater subjected the Army –Air Force  partnership to severe strain. Indeed, the performance resembled neither a delicately balanced chamber session nor a finely tuned symphony but a concerto in which all performers believed they were playing the featured instrument. Here, mutual listening skills proved exiguous, and the interaction betwe