other campaigns gave different lessons: Norway  and Crete  demonstrated the superiority of airpower over naval forces . In both instances the Royal Navy , reputedly the finest in the world, had been decisively repulsed—not by German or Italian sea power , which the British had quickly disposed of—but by the Luftwaffe . The British fleet  lay helpless before an enemy that controlled the air. 36 At Crete , for example, the Luftwaffe  sank four British cruisers and six destroyers, while severely damaging an aircraft carrier  and three battleships . Because of such staggering losses—the worst defeat of the war for the Royal Navy —the fleet could not hold the island. Later, the sinking of the British dreadnoughts Prince of Wales  and Repulse  off the Malayan coast by Japanese land-based aircraft served to heighten de Seversky ’s scorn for the capital ship . De Seversky  also argued that the rescue of the British army from Dunkirk  was possible only because the RAF  controlled the air above the beaches. Air superiority  permitted the Royal Navy  to move in and evacuate over three hundred thousand troops. 37 Had the Luftwaffe  owned the skies, the British would not have attempted such an operation; if they had, the results would have resembled those at Norway  and Crete . Airpower had saved the remnants of the British army . The Battle of Britain  was also compelling insofar as it demonstrated how improperly structured and poo rly led airpower could squander a numerical advantage. Inte rest- ingly, although de Seversky had predicted a British victory, another famous American aviator, Charles Lindbergh , argued that nothing could stand up to the Luftwaffe ’s might.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 250  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 277 --- Moreover, he believed that because Britain was doomed, the United States  should cut ties with that country and build up its own air strength. 38 De Seversky  countered that airpower had shrunk the globe to such an extent that US isolation