re the facts to substantiate the charges of treason and incompetence? Overall, it was a dismal performance. 80 Mitchell  had obtained the forum he sought, but the results were certainly not what he had intended. One historian argues that Mitchell  sincerely thought he would be found not guilty. Yet, when one remembers how intemperately he savaged the Army  hierarchy, calling into question its motives, competence, integrity, and patriotism—and bearing in mind that part of that hierarchy sat in judgment of him—Mitchell ’s hubris in thinking he would be forgiven is a bit breathtaking. 81 His persistent and provocative explosions were simply too much. The verdict shocked no one but Mitchell himself. Found guilty on 17 December—ironically, the 22d anniversary of the Wright brothers ’ first powered flight at Kitty Hawk —he retired from the service on 1 February 1926 to continue his crusade, sans uniform. Although newspapers gave the court-martial  proceedings extensive coverage, no outcry for an independent air force erupted following the verdict. The Morrow Board , which had received testimony from an array of civilian and military aviation specialists, had indeed diminished interest in the court-martial . Winged Defense  sold only forty-five hundred copies between August 1925 and January 1926, during the peak of sensationalism. 82 Although Mitchell  received many letters in that span echoing the support of the “great mass of the common people of America ,”83 few individuals were willing to back his cause with a demand for legislation. Mitchell ’s confidant Hap Arnold , then an Air Service  major, later speculated on why the American people failed to act on Mitchell ’s recommendations: “The public enthusiasm . . . was not for air power—it was for Billy.” 84 Flamboyant, intrepid,THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 104  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 133 --- and cocksure, Mitchell  appealed to New Era America. His message, though, struck an uncertain chord. His argument that b