see Boyd, interview). However, the historical review presented earlier suggests that this notion has underpinned US strategic air theory from its earliest days. Boyd does not recall briefing John Warden directly, and Warden claims to have only a superficial appreciation of Boyd’s ideas. He is,THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 392  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 417 --- however, most familiar with those concerning air combat and energy maneuverability, owing to his fighter background. Col John A. Warden III, commandant, Air Command and Staff College, Maxwell AFB, Ala., interviewed by author, 27 January 1994. 39. One detects a distinct “strategic” flavor to Warden’s discussions of air superiority and interdiction in The Air Campaign: Planning for Combat (Washington, D.C.: National Defense University Press, 1988). Emphasizing that “command is the sine qua non  of military operations,” he advocates attacking the three elements of command (information gathering, decision, and communication) as part of the effort to win air superiority (pages 51–58). Likewise, he clearly prefers “distant interdiction” against the source of men and materiel as the “most decisive” form of interdiction (pages 94–95). 40. Ibid., 9. 41. In defining a center of gravity as “the hub of all power and movement,” Clausewitz viewed COGs as strengths alone. Also, in his quest to reduce the enemy’s COGs to a single, omnipotent hub, Clausewitz diminished the strategic significance of interrelationships between COGs. He did acknowledge that one could not always reduce several COGs to one (though these cases were “very few” in number). He also recognized a certain “connectedness” between COGs when he wrote of their “spheres of effectiveness” to describe the influence of one hub upon the rest. However, Clausewitz still advocated attacks upon the COGs themselves, overlooking the possibility of targeting the vulnerable linkages between COGs. These linkages and interactions are addressed by Boyd, Warden, and, m