aralysing, not of killing.” 94 Two modern-day airmen, John Boyd  and John Warden , have done just that. As I have explained, Boyd ’s thoughts are process  oriented and aim at psychological  paralysis . He speaks of folding an opponent back inside himself by operating inside his OODA loop , an action that severs the adversary’s external bonds with his environment and thereby forces an inward orientation upon him. This inward focus necessarily creates mismatches between the real world and his perceptions of that world. Under the menacing environment of war, the initial confusion and disorder degenerate into a state of internal dissolution that collapses his will to resist . To counter this dissolution, Boyd  offers the orientation process of destruction and creation—a form of mental gymnastics designed to permit more rapid construction of more accurate strategies in the heat of battle. His theory  of conflict is Clausewitzian  in the sense that it remains philosophical, emphasizes the mental and moral spheres of conflict, and upholds the importance of teaching warriors how to think—that is, teaching the genius of war. Warden ’s theory  of strategic attack is form  oriented and aims at physical  paralysis . It advocates parallel , inside-out strikes against an enemy’s five strategic rings, with unwavering emphasis on the leadership bull’s-eye. Continual differentiation of these rings by air strategists  reveals those COGs  within and between rings that, when struck, incapacitate the enemy system through the rapid impositionTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 388  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 413 --- of either total or partial paralysis . Warden ’s theory is Jominian in the sense that it remains practical, emphasizes the physical sphere of conflict, and upholds the importance of teaching warriors how to act—that is, teaching the principles of war. The ideas of Boyd  and Warden  complement each other and, together, have helped usher in the era of inflicting strategic paral