cted-energy weapons (DEW) , and BMD  with maneuverable, space-to-space, space-to-air, and space-to-ground capability. Air-to-space (airborne laser or kinetic miniature homing vehicle ASATs )20 and ground-to-space (direct-ascent ASATs ) systems would also warrant investment. Objecting to the weaponization  of space on moral grounds (Sanctuary School) or on grounds of space systems’ vulnerability (Survivability School) may seem as unrealistic as objecting to maintaining a military at all. Yet, space power  advocates must appreciate that objections made from an emotional perspective are a real issue—one that could manifest itself in policy as dictated by the democratic process. Legal Factor In addition to the various schools of thought, several important treaties have made a significant impact on military space policy . Of note are the following: 1. The Outer Space Treaty (OST)  of 1967 states that international law applies beyond the atmosphere. TheTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 536  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 560 --- treaty reemphasized standing international laws (e.g., one sovereign state cannot threaten the territorial integrity or political independence of another—United Nations [UN]  Charter, 1947) and initiated new space- related laws (e.g., free access to space and celestial bodies for peaceful intent, prohibitions on national appropriations of space or celestial bodies, prohibitions on putting any weapons of mass destruction  in space or on celestial bodies). 2. The Antiballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty  of 1972 (United States  and USSR  only) banned the development, testing, and deployment of space-based ABMs . 3. The Convention on Registration  (1974) requires parties to maintain a registry of objects launched into space and report orbital parameters and general function of those objects to the UN . 4. The Environmental Modification Convention  (1980) prohibits the hostile use of environmental modification. What is not stated in international law is proba