ir interface in the wake of the Army ’s decision to eliminate the field army as an organizational echelon. Strengthening the Partnership, 1980–86 Over the next six years, the Army  significantly revised its capstone doctrine  from Active Defense  to AirLand Battle , the latter term generating a great deal of misunderstanding, particularly during the Gulf War . One must remember that AirLand Battle  was Army  doctrine  (i.e., it was not Air Force doctrine , and it was not joint doctrine ). The Air ForceTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 414  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 439 --- rearticulated its basic doctrine  in 1984, providing a somewhat more coherent view of the theory and application of airpower than had its predecessors. Air Force  cooperation remained absolutely essential to the execution of the Army ’s AirLand Battle  doctrine. That cooperation was evident in the development of the “31 initiatives,” which focused mainly on programmatic activities between the Army Staff and Air Staff, and in ALFA ’s publication of several practical biservice manuals. However, the inherent tension between Army  and Air Force perspectives regarding air-ground integration again surfaced, this time with regard to incorporating NATO  doctrinal prescriptions for the control of AI  into US Air Force  practice. General DePuy  had clearly intended the 1976 edition of FM 100-5 to be widely read—it was. It also was widely debated. As the debate matured, criticism of Active Defense  focused on several key issues. First, it was too oriented toward weapons systems—soldiers became mere operators, not warriors. Second, the defensive method of moving from blocking position to blocking position seemed to cede the initiative to the adversary. Third, the emphasis placed on winning the first battle left open the more important question of winning the last battle. Additionally, the doctrine ’s focus at division level and below omitted the important contribution made by the corps, particularly in dis