he air, and in the air alone.” 56 Readers of Air Power and Armies  are struck by the fact that Slessor  bases his arguments not only on logic—the method employed by most air theorists —but also on history. Noting that history enables commanders and staff officers “to be wise before the event,” he relies heavily on the history of war, concentrating especially on the Great War  and airpower’s role in it. Most airmen of that era disdained history, perhaps because it seemed to teach the wrong lessons for airpower.MEILINGER 61  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 90 --- Responding to this tendency, Slessor  wrote, “If there is one attitude more dangerous than to assume that a future war will be just like the last one, it is to imagine that it will be so utterly different that we can ignore all the lessons of the last one.” 57 One of the lessons of that war, as indeed of those in the past four centuries, was that Britain  had to maintain a balance of power in Europe . Specifically, the security of the country demanded that the low countries remain in safe hands—an issue worth fighting for. Slessor  believed that the character of war had changed dramatically. Unlike Douhet , he believed that trench stalemate was over. The advent of the tank and airplane meant that the static warfare of the western front  was an aberration. In the future, small maneuver armies would dominate war. Clearly, his tour at Camberley had kept him abreast of the latest developments in mechanized warfare .58 In addition—and not surprisingly—Slessor  believed that airpower would play a key, perhaps dominant, role in future war. He saw it as the third revolution in warfare, behind gunpowder and machine guns. However, air was the most important development: although the first two allowed more efficient killing on the battlefield, “AIR may stop men or their supplies arriving at the battle-field at all” (emphasis in original). 59 In fact, he saw airpower as the antidote to modern weapons of surfac