eration,  1924, 1, AFHRA, file no. 245.01-3. Progressivism was an amorphous social and political movement in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. As a political movement, it advocated an active government defense of the weak and oppressed. Its specific achievements included the breakup of monopolies and trusts, the introduction of lower tariffs, the popular election of senators, and the introduction of child labor laws. In the spheres of business and education, Progressivism stressed technicism, standardization, professionalization, formalized education, scientific management, and timeliness and efficiency. One can argue that Secretary of War Root’s reforms, which included the introduction of the general staff system and the further rationalization of military education, were Progressivist acts. See Peter Karsten, “Armed Progressives: The Military Reorganizes for the American Century,” in Building the Organizational Society,  ed. Jerry Israel (New York: Free Press, 1972), 197–232. For a discussion on the difficulties of defining Progressivism as a movement, see Peter G. Filene, “An Obituary for the Progressive Movement,” American Quarterly  22 (Spring 1970): 20–34. 14. Benjamin Foulois, From the Wright Brothers to the Astronauts (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1968), 202. More than a few airmen shared Pershing’s distaste for the supercilious Mitchell. In 1919, for example, Oscar Westover (a future Air Corps leader) complained to Maj Gen Charles Menoher that “Mitchell believes that his rank entitles him to special deference as a Group Chief and that all other Air Service activities ought to cow-tow to him as Chief of the Training and Operations Group.” Such arrogance droveTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 226  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 253 --- Westover to conclude, “I think it also unfortunate that General Mitchell is not Colonel Mitchell” and to suggest that he be reassigned as the commander of air defenses in the Philippines! Chief of the Air Corps Mason P