ve when conducted at low altitude (below 1500 feet) and at low speed (under 125 knots). The effectiveness of visual surveillance  deteriorates rapidly above these limits. Very few jet pilots actually saw a human target during the war in Southeast Asia .”72 Further, the authors nearly universally agreed about the utility of the helicopter , including the armed helicopter, for many important roles. However, several of them expressed concern about slow, low-flying aircraft (whether fixed or rotaryDREW 341  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 367 --- wing) in light of the development of effective shoulder-fired surface-to-air missiles (SAM) . The Soviet experience in Afghanistan  proved particularly enlightening insofar as these missiles  seemed to change the entire character of the air war against the mujahideen  rebels. As Aaron Karp  noted, “The Stinger has quickly become the most celebrated rebel weapon of the West. Soviet Mi-24 Hind  gunships, once the scourge of the battlefield, have now become the quarry.” 73 The right technology  was only part of the problem for airmen. Best use of that equipment in a comprehensive strategy presented a problem that had not previously received extensive attention. During this period, much of the literature attempted, at least in part, to examine the theoretical side of airpower employment in counterinsurgent  operations.74 David Dean , for example, noted that “low-intensity conflict  needs to be considered in terms of assistance, integration of forces, and intervention.” 75 Writing in the mid-1980s, Dean  focused on using special operations  forces rather than the whole Air Force . Olson  took a broader view, extending well beyond special operations . He noted, for example, that traditional tactical airpower doctrine  is inappropriate for counterinsurgencies : “Tactical air doctrine  and the attending force structure are designed for conventional wars  against conventional enemies. In most low-intensity conflict  situation