such “brain warfare” remained the most effective and efficient way to destroy the enemy’s military organization and hence its military strength. To economize the application of military force, one needed to produce the instantaneous effects of a “shot through the head” rather than the slow bleed of successive, slight body wounds. 12 Liddell Hart  was Fuller ’s kindred spirit in the field of military strategy . Like his fellow countryman, Liddell Hart  was a vigorous advocate of strategic paralysis . Arguing that “the most decisive victory is of no value if a nation be bled white gaining it,” he insisted that the more potent and economical form of warfare was disarmament through paralysis —not destruction through annihilation .13 Fuller  and Liddell Hart  witnessed the introduction of the aerial weapon in war, and both envisioned a decisive role for airpower in inducing strategic paralysis . Fuller  predicted “an army holding at bay another, whilst its aircraft are destroying the hostile communications and bases and so paralysingFADOK 361  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 386 --- enemy action”  (emphasis added). 14 Likewise, in 1925 Liddell Hart  reasoned, “Provided that the blow be sufficiently swift and powerful, there is no reason why within a few hours, or at most days from the commencement of hostilities, the nerve system of the country inferior in airpower should not be paralysed.” 15 They were not alone in their grand visions of airpower. Many veteran airmen of World War I  supported the cause. Two men—Hugh Trenchard  and William Mitchell — stand out because of their influence upon the initial de velop- ment of strategic air doctrine . Marshal of the Royal Air Force (RAF)  Lord Trenchard , the “father of the RAF ,” believed in strategic paralysis . In a memorandum of 1928 to the chiefs of staff on the war object of an air force, Trenchard  explicitly states that the goal of air action is “to paralyse  from the very outset the enemy’s production centr