es of enemy power was minimal in the Navy  prior to 1941. As the war neared its end, however—especially after command of Twentieth Air Force  in the Pacific was kept out of the hands of the theater commanders —naval line officers gave a great deal more thought to the idea of strategic bombing . Organization for War Increasingly, naval officers voiced their concerns about the morality of strategic bombing  because of the harm to civilians, notwithstanding the harm done by blockade . In addition, the war made it clear that command of the air was a prerequisite in strategic as well as tactical operations—but it was difficult or impossible to achieve in the former because of the long ranges involved. Until escort aircraft  could fly all the way toTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 132  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 161 --- the target, the bomber  could not get through—or so the argument went in naval circles.69 The implications of the coming of nuclear weapons  were as yet little explored, and the result of all these factors left the naval officer corps in a state of flux—without a clear vision of its future and its purpose for one of the rare times in the twentieth century. This situation led to an institutional identity crisis that remained unresolved until a decade had passed. 70 One problem for the Navy  was that it had complete command of the sea, and nobody could challenge it. What could it use that command for? The new potential adversary was the Soviet Union , but it had no surface navy. Nor did it have any significant dependency on overseas raw materials or food vulnerable to blockade .71 The idea of an amphibious landing against the whole Eurasian world island was preposterous—and both Napoléon  and Hitler  had made the idea more so in any event. The United States  was coming out of two decades of serious deficit spending, and Billy Mitchell ’s idea of getting the job done with one air force instead of a two-ocean navy—especially an air force equipped with nucle