ic air war  as early as 1924. That year, the Reichswehr  secret Air Staff conducted an air war game  that included a plan for a strategic bombing campaign against France . The Germans studied French armaments industry , listing the most vital factories and installations supporting the French army  and air force , and assigning target priorities. They estimated that the destruction of 20 to 30 vital factories could severely hamper French armaments production. 79 By 1926 postwar studies and air war games  conducted by the General Staff culminated in a comprehensive air doctrine , expressed as Guidelines for the Operational Air War, 80 which described the air force of the future as, essentially, two forces. One would provide aviation  support for the army , including reconnaissance , artillery spotting , and close air support . TheCORUM 171  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 199 --- second, composed of bombers , would provide long-range strategic bombing  missions, as envisioned in the 1924 war games . For the first time, German doctrine  acknowledged the destruction of the enemy will as an important air force mission. The German Air Staff in the 1920s, however, contained few enthusiastic Douhetians . The German strategic bombing  campaign against Britain  in 1917 and 1918, especially its technical problems, was still fresh in the minds of German airmen. Because losses in aircrew and aircraft far exceeded the results achieved, by May 1918 the Germans had called off the campaign. 81 In addition to recognizing the difficulties of a strategic  campaign, the Germans themselves had mounted a fairly effective defense against Allied strategic bombers .82 Unlike Douhet , they had great respect for defense. German writings of the period emphasized the necessity of fighter escort  for bombers because no one expected unescorted bombers  to get through. From the mid-1920s to the mid-1930s, the best known civilian commentator on airpower was Hans Ritter , formerly an airma