tional invasion requiring full mobilization of all the state’s resources. The Gulf War  motivated the Russians to redefine aggression and make adjustments to their fundamental ideas about operational art . The doctrine  listed primary tasks to safeguard military security when war threatened or seemed imminent. For the military, such tasks included mobilizing and equipping forces to repulse and defeat an aggressor.98 Force Structure and Priorities The new doctrine  contained guidance for the composition and priorities of Russian armed forces. It specified enough forces in permanent readiness to deter and repel local aggression. Further, the doctrine  identified mobile reserves capable of rapid response  and deployment  to repel midlevel aggression when combined with the ready forces. Last, it required strategic reserves to conduct large-scale combat actions. The top priority task for all forces entailed developing and exploiting “the emerging high precision, mobile, highly survivable, long-range, stand-off weapons.”99 The Russians’ second priority was also directly linked to the military-technical aspect of military doctrine . The new doctrine  specified “arms, equipment, and C3I systems whose qualities  allow a reduced quantity  of arms” and called for reducing serial production while maintaining research, development, and production capabilities that rapidly surge the emerging technologies  (emphasis added). 100 The new doctrine  saw the role of the Russian armed forces as defeating missile attacks, protecting strategic targets  suchFELKER 511  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 535 --- as administration and industrial infrastructure, and carrying out retaliatory strikes. 101 Defeating surprise  aviation-missile attacks represented a new strategic concept to the Russians. They saw Desert Storm  as a new type of combat—the electronic fire operation —consisting of surprise attacks  involving massed and prolonged missile, aerospace, electronic, and naval strik