id not write a companion volume on strategic air war . (His many writings after World War II  are concerned primarily with nuclear deterrence  and the situation in Europe .) In a sense, Slessor ’s masterful volume served as a transition between the RAF  of the post–World War I  era and the RAF  of the pre–World War II  era. The rise of Nazi Germany , “the ultimate potential enemy,” forced air leaders to begin planning for a genuine military threat, not just an inconvenient diplomatic nuisance as in the decade previously. As a consequence, the RAF  went through a period of frenzied planning and expansion that would last the remainder of the decade. Although the Air Ministry  and the government tended to focus on these various expansion schemes—fertile fields for historians—the operational RAF  went about its business of thinking through the matter of war fighting . This effort culminated in a new edition of AP 1300 written during peace but published soon after the outbreak of war. The new manual again stressed national will as the key to war: “A nation is defeated when its people or Government no longer retain their will to prosecute their war aim.” 65 Several factors buttressed this will : the armed forces, manpower, the economic system, and finances. The purpose of military forces was, therefore, to defeat enemy forces in battle, starve the people into submission through blockade, or instill a sense of “war weariness” in them by disrupting their normal lives— considered the true path to victory for airpower. As before, the method advanced to effect this disruption was bombing  the enemy industrial and economic infrastructure, such as public utilities, food and fuel supplies, transportation networks, andTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 66  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 95 --- communications. Hopefully, the destruction of such targets would cause “a general undermining of the whole populace, even to the extent of destroying the nation’s will  to continue the struggle