and partly to heightened sensitivities over the use of force, emphasizing less loss of life and less collateral damage. This more peaceful use of strategic airpower has become a much debated and explored topic of late. One of the main foci of that debate has been space-based assets and capabilities. In truth, it is interesting to note that for most of the past century, ideas about airpower have been far in advance of the technology needed to carry them out. Many people argue that only today are capabilities finally catching up to the predictions of the early air theorists. In the xxviii  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 27 --- case of space, however, just the opposite is true: the technology is far in advance of the doctrine and concepts regarding its employment. Because this situation is beginning to change, it is time to examine more fully the fundamental issue of whether air and space are one and the same—or if indeed they are two separate realms. This issue is fraught with political, economic, military, and bureaucratic minefields. The Air Force, perhaps in an attempt to solidify its hold on space and keep the other services at bay, argues forcefully that space is merely a place, one that is akin to the atmosphere—which is to say it is fundamentally different from the places where land and sea forces routinely operate. The Air Force’s share of the space budget, generally 90 percent, fortifies this strongly held belief by putting money where the talk is. Even airmen, however, are questioning that postulate, precisely because the cost of space is increasing dramatically, as are the capabilities it promises. In order to address this issue most dispassionately, one must examine the basic characteristics of both air and space. Once that is done, a more logical and verifiable answer will be forthcoming to the question, Whither space? Theory and doctrine are not subjects that airmen readily take to. As Carl Builder has noted, airmen tend to be doers, not thin