t them in new and original ways. This process of “destruction and creation” lay at the heart of “orienting” oneself in an increasingly complex world. These theories and their implications for a rapid, paralyzing method of warfare were particularly suited to airpower. Unfortunately, Boyd has never really put his thoughts on paper, relying instead on extremely long briefings composed of scores of slides—some containing only a single word or phrase— that last for up to eight hours. As a result, his theories remain vaguely known and understood by the military and academic communities. Another American fighter pilot who began questioning conventional wisdom emerged in 1986 at National Defense University (NDU). There, a young colonel, John A. Warden III, wrote a thesis titled “The Air Campaign: Planning for Combat,” an unusual and controversial piece. Whereas most of the Air Force seemed polarized between those who saw war largely at the nuclear level and those who concentrated instead on the tactical air battle, Warden dared to consider the possibility of strategic, conventional operations. Fortunately and  fortuitously, the president of NDU at the time was Maj Gen Perry McCoy Smith, who as a young officer was himself accused of being a controversial and therefore troublesome writer in matters concerning his service. 5 Smith encouraged and backed Warden in his efforts, and the thesis became a book. Warden expanded on his theory of airpower, characterized by visualizing a society as a series of concentric rings. The most important of these rings, the center, was enemy leadership, because leaders make decisions regarding peace and war. The military, therefore, should direct its actions, both physical and psychological, towards removing, blinding, confusing, or disorienting the enemy leadership. This in turn would lead to paralyzing indecision and inaction. Although many critics have disagreed with Warden’s theories, his book’s xxiv  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Pa