trial system. This omission may partly be a result of his belief that the will of the people  was a target of such overwhelming importance that elaborating on the other vital centers  was unnecessary. In addition, disassembling these centers was not nearly as simple as Douhet  suggested. For one thing, aircraft cannot operate at will, anytime or anyplace. Rather, many limits may be imposed on airpower : political restraints and goals, range, national boundaries, darkness, weather, the electromagnetic spectrum—even the duration of the war itself can significantly affect target selection. Yet, Douhet  believed that because aircraft operated in the third dimension, they had no limits and that they could quickly and effectively attack all targets. This interpretation is too facile. Targets are not destroyed simply because they are attacked, and merely identifying targets to strike is no substitute for a coherent air strategy . Most surprisingly, Douhet  is not alone in this shallow thinking. None of the classic airpower thinkers—Billy Mitchell , Hugh Trenchard , John Slessor , Alexander de Seversky , and so forth—ever went beyond the most fundamental stages of attempting to identify the key vital centers  of a country. Moreover, they simply do not discuss the question of which specific target sets  within those vital centers —industries, transportation nodes , and command and control  facilities— were most important and what the order of priority was for striking them. The theorists  at the Air Corps Tactical School  at Maxwell Field, Alabama , in the 1930s made some initial inquiries in this area and quickly concluded that just asTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 28  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 57 --- targeting  is the key to airpower, so is intelligence  the key to targeting. Unfortunately, although military intelligence organizations had existed in some form for centuries, the information they gathered was generally of the type needed at the tactical level: the numb