ectives. In the revised edition of The Command of the Air , Douhet  combined the functions of bombardment and escort into one aircraft—the battle plane , which he envisioned flying en masse towards an enemy’s vital centers carrying both bombs and defensive machine guns. 37 Significantly, unlike many other writers of the period who tended to glorify air warfare —especially the role of the fighterTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 14  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 43 --- pilot —Douhet  took a decidedly nonromantic view. No passages in his writings speak of the exhilaration of flight, the conquest of nature by man and machine, or the near-mystical experiences of people who have become unfettered by the tyranny of geography. He did not compare pilots to modern knights—bold, chivalrous, and dashing—but portrayed aviators simply as determined and stoic professionals who went about their deadly business in an unremarkable way. And this business was indeed a deadly one. Because most attacks would be on area targets, Douhet  did not believe that bombing accuracy was especially important: if targets were so small as to require high accuracy, then they were probably not worthwhile targets. Aircraft conducting these area attacks would use a mixture of high-explosive , incendiary , and gas  or biological (aerochemical) bombs. The explosives would produce rubble; the incendiaries would start fires in the rubble; and the aerochemical bombs would prevent firefighters from extinguishing the blaze. In The Command of the Air , Douhet  states only that aircraft would use these bombs “in the correct proportions,” but in “The War of 19—” German battle planes carry bomb loads in the ratio of one explosive to three incendiary  to six aerochemical bombs .38 Douhet  thus recognized that a combination of different types of weapons can produce a greater result than can any single weapon. Of note, during World War II , Allied bombers  often carried a mix of both high-explosive and incendiary bomb