ened in 1922, as “the cradle of our brain.” 43 At the Staff College, a small faculty (originally five officers, all of whom later attained flag rank) presented lectures each morning, which the students (generally around 30 each year) then discussed in seminar. Reading requirements were not heavy, and students usually received a detailed outline of each lecture to help them prepare. Guest speakers from government, business, or other military services lectured frequently, usually in the evenings. Tactical air exercises were common, and each student had to write an essay on his experiences, the best of which were published each year and distributed throughout the RAF . Most of them dealt with air operations  in the Great War . As time went on, more students wrote of air control  activities in the Middle East . Further, the faculty and staff had at their disposal a handful of aircraft for refresher practice. 44 In keeping with the RAF ’s need for competent staff officers who could work effectively in a joint environment, the curriculum—especially in the early years—emphasized adminis- trative  duties, tactics, and the missions and capabilities of the other services. For example, in the second class (1923–24) only about two weeks of the entire year’s curriculum were devoted to air strategy .45 Interestingly, however, the Staff College’s f irst commandant, Air Commodore Robert Broo ke-Popham , taught these lessons himself, thus lending cons ider- able  prestige to the subject and setting a precedent for all succeeding commandants prior to the war. 46 Brooke-Popham  had been a successful combat commander in France , so his reputation and seniority gave credibility to Andover. Although some of his ideas seem a bit bizarre today, his views on airpower were well thought out and compelling. 47 In his first lecture, the commandant argued that due to industrialization, the growth of democracy, and trade unionism , people as a whole were now more directly affected by war. Just as