1915, he met with disaster. As he attacked a German destroyer, antiaircraft fire struck his aircraft, causing it to crash into the water. The concussion detonated one of the aircraft’s bombs, killing his observer and blowing off de Seversky ’s right leg below the knee. Miraculously, he survived; a Russian patrol boat rescued him, and after eight months in convalescence, he returned to active duty with an artificial limb. 2 Assigned a job in aircraft production, de Seversky  applied his mechanical acumen to the design of aeronautical devices that would make a pilot’s job easier, designing such devices as hydraulic brakes, adjustable rudder pedals, and special bearings for flight controls. He also experimented with a sophisticated bombsight and aircraft skis for landing on icy surfaces. His inventions won him an award in 1916 for the top aeronautical ideas of the year. 3 Although designing aircraft was important work, de Seversky  wanted to return to flying duty, but superiors denied his request. Nevertheless, when in early 1916 a group of dignitaries visited his airfield to witness the test flight of a newTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 240  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 267 --- aircraft, de Seversky  surreptitiously took the place of the scheduled pilot and put the aircraft through its paces for the assembled crowd. This stunt caused an uproar, fueling talk of a court-martial for “endangering government property.” Fortunately, the czar himself heard of the incident, decided Russia  needed colorful heroes, and intervened to have de Seversky  returned to combat flying duty. 4 Over the next year, he flew 57 combat missions and scored 13 kills of German aircraft. On one mission, he and his wingman bombed a German airfield and then attacked seven planes in the air, shooting down three, despite receiving over 30 bullet holes in his own aircraft. 5 For this exploit, the czar presented him a gold sword. His wooden leg did not seem to bother him. In fact, he later claimed t