ventional war  paradigms reflected in US Air Force doctrine . Unfortunately, these books dealt with airpower only tangentially. 50 If the response by American airmen in professional military journals was sparse in the mid- and late 1960s, it was almost nonexistent during the 1970s. The seriously mixed feelings about the denouement of US combat involvement in Vietnam , the unfortunate final outcome of the struggle in 1975, the desire to put the entire experience to rest, the perceived need to refocus on the Soviet threat , and a variety of other factors combined to limit debate and research about airpower in protracted revolutionary warfare .51 The professional military journals in Great Britain  had better luck in publication during the 1970s, but few of the articles dealt with the basics of airpower theory and doctrine  in protracted revolutionary war . Rather, they recounted historical episodes or dealt with airpower very much at the tactical level. 52 The publication in Great Britain  in 1970 of the Royal Air Force (RAF)  official history of the Malayan Emergency  should have been far more important. It laid out in detail—and remarkable objectivity—RAF  contributions to the successful counterinsurgent  operations. 53 No evidence indicates that this volume had a significant impact in the United States . The commercial press boasted a wealth of book-length literature during the 1970s. 54 These offerings included the first memoirs of senior military leaders involved in the Vietnamese struggle. 55 Unfortunately, they shed little real light on the use of airpower in counterinsurgency  or protracted revolutionary warfare . This was particularly disappointing in the cases of Gen Edward Lansdale  and Gen William Momyer . Lansdale  served as an advisor in both the Philippines  and Vietnam , but his book says little about the use of airpower in those conflicts. Momyer , who commanded Seventh Air Force  in Vietnam until 1968, produced an excellent operational history of the