er sense, though, one may infer that practically everyone involved remained persuaded that Mahan  was right when he reasserted that he who commands the sea commands the world. In the words of Paul M. Kennedy, The Second World War  saw the full arrival and exploitation of this revolutionary (air) weapon and the fulfillment of the prophecies of Douhet , Mitchell , Trenchard  and the others that aircraft were vital to achieve dominance over land and sea theatres. As such, this did not invalidate Mahan ’s doctrine that command of the sea meant control of those ‘broad highways,’ the lines of communication  between homeland and overseas ports; but it did spell the end of the navy’s claim to a monopoly role in preserving such sea masteries. And the Admiralty’s established belief that a fleet of battleships  provided the ultimate force to control the ocean seaways was made to look more old-fashioned than ever—and very erroneous and dangerous. 62 The naval officer corps remained committed to the idea of exploitation through blockade  rather than invasion, but it was overruled, and amphibious planning was under way when nuclear weapons  came along to precipitate Japanese surrender. 63 Even earlier, on the eve of World War II , the aviators among the naval leaders were beginning to rattle the gates to high command. However, tension had existed throughout the conflict between them and the old guard. Some of the principal decision makers  like Ernest King  and William Halsey did have wings, even pilot wings, but most of them had gone through flying school as senior officers and had never served as crew members at the squadron level. They were deemed Johnny-come-latelies to the flying business and thereforeTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 130  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 159 --- unable to understand air war  as well as the pioneers—the chief one of whom had been at the head of the Bureau of Aeronautics  when war came: John Towers . He aspired to high operational command through