zed C2 is the most prudent option. Although current Air Force doctrine  calls for it, 34 centralized space C 2 simply doesn’t exist. Gen Charles A. Horner , USAF, Retired, former commander in chief (CINC) of US Space Command (USSPACECOM) , when asked by Sen. Sam Nunn , chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee , “Are you in charge of space?” felt compelled to reply, “That depends.” It depends because CINCSPACE is the one CINC who exercises little control over his or her own command. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) , Defense Information Systems Agency , Ballistic Missile Defense Office , Central Intelligence Agency , Central Imagery Office , National Reconnaissance Office , National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration , Departments of Commerce / Transportation  and Interior , National Science Foundation , and White House Office of Science and Technology Policy  all intrude upon CINCSPACE’s budget, and many of the same organizations intrude upon his or her launch, on-orbit control, R&D , and acquisition  authority. 35 The ubiquity and responsiveness of air and space assets both require centralized control  in order to orchestrate optimum allocation of assets throughout the battle space. In this regard, centralized C 2 ought to be a characteristic similarity  of airpower and space power . Unfortunately, US government bureaucracy has not permitted this level of control of space assets or operations. Centralized  C2 is a characteristic advantage of airpower.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 544  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 568 --- Execution Air Force doctrine  cites “effective spans of control, responsiveness, and tactical flexibility” as justification for the decentralized execution  of airpower. 36 This essay does not challenge the historical legacy supporting this air doctrine  for manned flight. Suffice it to mention that one may question the value of decentralized execution  when (if  ) centrally controlled unmanned aerial ve