ses the principles of centralized control  (to promote an integrated effort in execution of plans) and decentralized execution  (to provide flexibility in the detailed planning and execution of those plans). 46 However, as Stein  observed above, the disagreement over the dividing line between these two defines the essential differences between the United States  and the United Kingdom  and between services in the US military. Centralized control  of air resources provides allotment , apportionment , allocation , and tasking  of resources. Allotment , exercised by the commander having operational command, assigns forces among subordinate commands. Apportionment determines and assigns the total expected air effort by percentage and/or priority, while allocation  translates that determination into total numbers of sorties by aircraft type for each operation or task. Tasking , then, takes the allocation and turns it into an order to an individual unit. 47 Counterair Doctrine One finds NATO’s doctrine  for counterair in ATP-42. 48 Closely tied to it is ATP-40, Doctrine and Procedures for Airspace Control in the Combat Zone .49 NATO  has always recognized a need for air superiority . The two major areas of disagreement lie in the role of attacks against the enemy’s integrated air defense system (IADS) —commonly referred to as SEAD —and C 2 of counterair  resources. The pamphlet defines counterair operations  as “those operations conducted to attain and maintain a desired degree of air superiority ” to produce a “favourable air situation essential for the successful conduct of combat operations.” 50 Although doctrine  separates these into “offensive” and “defensive” operations, it recognizes that, particularly sinceTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 454  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 478 --- they often use the same resources, one cannot view them in isolation from each other. ATP-42 considers SEAD  part of the offensive operations and defines it as activity which “neutralize