l paralysis  of his decision-making and action-taking processes. In addition to being a governance loop, the OODA  model represents the process of information collection, analysis, and dissemination. In this sense, Boyd  clearly reflects the influence of the Chinese warrior-philosopher Sun Tzu  on his thinking by highlighting the importance of information to successful combat operations. He does so by tying it to speed and accuracy in the decision cycles of strategic, operational, and tactical commanders. He who has better control of the information flow can observe, orient, decide, and act in a more timely and appropriate manner and can thereby operate within his adversary’s OODA loop . This control provides the opportunity to deny and/or exploit the information channels of one’s adversary while simultaneously protecting access to one’s own channels. Likewise, John Warden  advocates paralysis  through control warfare  based on command targeting. However, in contrast toTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 384  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 409 --- Boyd ’s process -oriented theory, Warden  focuses on the form by which one exercises C 2, euphemistically describing the leadership bull’s-eye of his five-rings model  as the brain and all its sensory inputs. If, for political or practical reasons, one cannot attain a direct “shot through the head,” indirect attack through the destruction, disruption, and/or exploitation of the brain’s informational and control channels can be equally effective. Warden  also recognizes the importance of information management to the effective operation of the enemy as a system, 80 speculating that the five strategic rings are connected by an “information bolt” that holds all the rings in place. If the bolt is destroyed, components within the rings may spin wildly out of control, 81 suggesting that information linkages between rings may present the key to taking down the entire enemy system. Together, Boyd  and Warden  have transformed paralysi