duced a methodology for analyzing strategic theories, particularly those dealing with the application of coercive airpower. Very simply, his approach links military means to political ends by way of “mechanisms,” which address why  theorists expect their proposed means or target sets to achieve the ends or desired results. In other words, if one attacks a given target (means), something will happen (mechanism) to produce the desired results (ends). Depicted graphically, TARGET → MECHANISM → RESULT. 33. John R. Boyd, Maxwell AFB, Ala., interviewed by author, 30 March 1994. 34. For those disappointed readers still looking for an operational example of Boyd’s ideas, I offer the following, both of which were acceptable to Boyd as possible applications. The first is the Russian concept of the operational maneuver group (OMG), a combined-arms team of raiders, paratroopers, and diversionary units designed to operate within  enemy formations. As Dr. Harold Orenstein describes it, “Such activity changes the classical concept of crushing a formation from without (by penetration, encirclement and blockade) into one of splitting it from within (by raids, airborne landings and diversions).” See Harold Orenstein, “Warsaw Pact Views on Trends in Ground Forces Tactics,”  International Defense Review  9 (September 1989): 1149–52. 35. Clausewitz defines the “ultimate object” of war in identical terms. See Carl von Clausewitz, On War,  ed. and trans. Michael Howard and Peter Paret (Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1976), 484. 36. Mao Tse-tung,  Six Essays on Military Affairs  (Peking: Foreign Languages Press, 1972), 273. 37. Ibid., 299. 38. Regarding his briefings to the USAF Checkmate Division, Boyd implies that he implanted this idea of strategic paralysis in the Air Staff (see Boyd, interview). However, the historical review presented earlier suggests that this notion has underpinned US strategic air theory from its earliest days. Boyd does not recall briefing John Ward