h his comments regarding the Korean War . The club’s contacts with military and political leaders in Washington  assured it that the Korean police action was a minor distraction that would be over quickly. Club officials therefore asked de Seversky  to modify his strident views on Korea  to conform to conventional wisdom. When he refused, they backed out of their offer to feature the book. De Seversky  noted ruefully that because he told the truth no one wanted to hear, his book sold 30,000 copies instead of six hundred thousand. 77 Sounding almost isolationist , de Seversky  argued against US involvement throughout the Korean War . President Truman ’s dismissal of Gen Douglas MacArthur —a man for whom he had great respect—angered him, but he thought the action justified if it led to a serious reappraisal of American policy .78 Such a reappraisal did in fact occur, but much to de Seversky ’s chagrin, the climactic hearings before the Senate tended to ratify the limited war policy  so abhorred by Mac- Arthur . The major’s proposed solution was far more direct. Air Power: Key to Survival  argued that “triphibious operations”—the synergistic actions of air, land, and sea forces, which he admitted were necessary in World War II—were now a thing of the past. In a favorite analogy, he likened the situation to the man who wanted to cross a river. One contractor tells him to build a tunnel under the water; another suggests a ferry to cross on the surface of the water; while the third proposes a bridge to span above the river. Perplexed and indecisive, the man elects to pursue all three ideas, at enormous cost and effort. De Seversky  saw this happening with American defense policy . Instead, he maintained that as airpower increased its range to a truly global scale, one would have little need for vulnerable surface forces  that would play bit parts in a major war against the Soviet Union . Why have a navy when there were no sea lanes to protect and no enemy fleet to contest