f --- Page 528 --- war was placed in the allies’ massive use of their airpower to keep losses on the ground to an absolute minimum. The immediate goal was to disarm, blind, deafen, and decapitate the enemy from the very outset to achieve control of the air. Then, allied airpower was applied at will to systematically destroy the Iraqi strategic infrastructure and ‘isolate the area of upcoming combat operations, along with concurrent destruction of Iraq ’s troops and military equipment.’ ” 72 Perhaps the strongest proponent of airpower’s role in the Gulf War  was General Slipchenko  of the General Staff. He noted that the coalition air campaign  set the outcome from the opening moments of the Gulf War , even intimating that the war had cast serious doubt on the relevance of the ground forces  as traditionally structured. “The Gulf War  supports the fact that air strikes  can by themselves form the basis of victory. . . . Airpower was responsible for the victory, because air superiority  altered the complexion of the war from the very outset” (emphasis added). 73 Force Structure.  The principle of strategic posturing  had defined how the Soviets generated, positioned, and mobilized forces. It called for forces capable of multidirectional fighting and able to work with Warsaw Pact  members; it also required that they deploy in a fully developed TVD . Internal changes within the Soviet Union  and the demise of the Warsaw Pact , however, invalidated this concept. With the bulk of the Soviet forces undergoing redeployment, force structuring  took on new meaning as regards the concept of strategic security. From the beginning of the Gulf War , coalition  strategic posturing  impressed the Soviets. Initially, many Soviet officers thought the coalition  mission was impossible, given the multiethnic makeup of the forces and the distances involved. As the war went on, however, this opinion changed. The Soviets cited coalition  preparation and cooperation of the forces as crucia