g that the USSR  had got along reasonably well in spite of the killing of tens of millions of its citizens by Joseph Stalin  and then by the Great Patriotic War .71 More generally, states might well behave in ways that American nuclear theorists  would consider irrational, so one needed to make potential enemies realize not only that they would suffer if they started a war, but also that they would lose. In short, since punitive deterrence  might not suffice, one might require deterrence by denial . The response to this argument essentially amounted to a reiteration of the fundamentals of MAD . As Robert Jervis , the standard bearer of opposition to the nuclear war fighters in the 1980s, put it, “MAD  Is a Fact, Not a Policy.” 72 Whatever the differences among states’ nuclear doctrines  and worldviews, the basic logic of MAD  is an inevitable consequence of the effects of nuclear weapons  and states’  pursuit of national survival. A state would have to behave with an unprecedented degree of irrationality in order to deliberately run a considerable risk of its own annihilation. Moreover, Jervis  notes that irrationality may be more likely to reduce a state’s willingness to take risks than it is to increase it. 73 The various arguments of the war-fighting school were mutually supporting but not entirely interdependent. One could accept some and reject others. Their most significant interconnection lay in the policy prescriptions that followed from them: all implied that the United States  ought to invest heavily in the development of tools required for nuclear war fighting . These included, among other things, highly robust C 2 systems and weapons optimized for counterforce attacks against hard targets. Perhaps most important of all, nuclear war fighting  called for strategic defenses —the bête noir of MAD  enthusiasts. Nuclear Offense, Defense, and Stability Long before the nuclear revolution , theorists and statesmen concerned themselves with the stability implicati