pected damage in the event of war, they do provide defense. Rather, they tend to be antideterrent by encouraging an enemy to attack preventively before one can deploy or improve them—or preemptively before the state which possesses them can strike first and use them as a shield against retaliation . On a more general level, strategic defenses  have the potential to weaken deterrence  by making war less costly and therefore more attractive. MAD  enthusiasts see strategic defenses  as extremely dangerous, but war fighters find them very appealing, in part because they could contribute to escalation dominance , although they might still encourage preemptive  or preventive attacks. They also might persuade an enemy who fears defeat rather than punishment that he would lose a war on the top rung of the escalation  ladder—a full-scale countervalue nuclear exchange. More fundamentally, however, war fighters tend to see damage limitation as important because their analysis of MAD  indicates that nuclear war  is a significant possibility. In contrast, MAD  enthusiasts generally consider deterrence  failure under MAD  quite unlikely unless one follows extremely bad policies. Consequently, they see the stability benefits to be derived from eschewing defenses as far more valuable than a damage limitation capability that one should never need. In considering stability, one must distinguish between the capability to launch an effective first strike  and the existence of incentives to strike first. The former is very difficult to  achieve against an uncooperative state with substantial resources.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 304  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 330 --- However, circumstances exist under which a state might launch a preemptive  or preventive attack even if it anticipated that doing so would result in severe nuclear retaliation . If nuclear war  (or a comparable cataclysm, such as conquest) appeared inevitable—especially if it also appeared imminent— states would h