litary in developing policy, and Russian loss in controlling the direction of the CIS . Clearly, the new doctrine  represents the Russians’ response to what they saw in the Gulf War , especially the impact of airpower on its outcome. More than just a response to social, political, and economic changes, the new doctrine represents the reemergence of the Russian military as a policy developer in the new state. The Russians saw the Gulf War  as a new form of war, involving the decisive use of surprise and high-tech systems. More importantly, they saw the initial period of war change from a preparatory phase to perhaps its only  phase, in which airpower’s role had become dominant. Because their doctrine  proved inadequate for building on the Desert Storm  experience, they changed it to address their lessons of the Gulf War . They did so because they saw that deep first strikes with technologically superior weapons could achieve strategic objectives quickly and inexpensively. Thus, the Russians reverted to a revisionist military doctrine , reinforcing their earlier ideas about the preeminence of the offense. The Gulf War  cleared their perception and put security threats in a different light: the need to protect their interests following “the breakup of the former Soviet Union , the loss of their former allies, the emergence of new hotbeds of military tensions along their southern borders, and the deterioration of the internal political and social fabric” of their country. 112 Lambeth  is correct when he points out that the fate of the Russian military remains “inseparably tied to the political and economic fate of post-Soviet Russia .”113 During the final days of the Soviet Union , defense outlays fell more than 23 percent—2.3 million rubles—from the 1990 levels. In 1992 the Russians redirected about 70 percent of their defense budget  into the social sector. Additionally, Russian politicians programmed almost 70 percent of theFELKER 515  File: --- meilinger_evolution.p