led a charter that was both theoretical and practical. On the theoretical level, its role was to study Air Corps  problems and issues that involved considerable study and research, as assigned by the chief of the Air Corps  under the provisions of AR 95-20 (9 November 1934). 71 In 1936 Lt Col R. M. Jones , General Arnold ’s executive officer, highlighted two of these problems and issues in particular. First, he asked whether theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 200  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 227 --- Air Corps  should pursue large-scale development of costly four-engined bombers  or whether it should invest in medium-range and therefore cheaper bombers. Second, he asked what types of missions long-range bombers  should actually perform. (The Air Corps ’s two-part answer, as already suggested, was the B-17  and hemispheric defense, respectively.) 72 In the immediate, practical sphere, the ACB ’s charter was to serve as an antidote to the “divide and conquer” strategy the Army  adopted against its aeromaniacs, particularly after the Drum Board  of 1933. In other words, the board’s function— since it presumably had at least the tacit support of OCAC  on certain issues—was to prevent divergences of opinion between OCAC  and the newly created, semiautonomous General Headquarters (GHQ) Air Force .73 As General Arnold  and his sympathizers insisted, the Air Corps  had to spread the conviction that it was “ one single body  with a single purpose common to all its parts” (emphasis in original). 74 Consequently, between 1935–42 the Air Corps Board  undertook 77 projects, 25 of which recommended common strategies and tactics. 75 Of those ACB  studies that provided airmen a “language” to assault Navy  prerogatives, arguably the two most important were ACB-31, The Functions of the Army Air Forces,  and ACB-35, Employment of Aircraft in Defense of the Continental United States . The purpose of ACB-31 was to “determine the manner in which Air Forces may best perform those functi