r-ground relationship. Many factors contributed to this “partnership”; indeed, the very use of the term seemed to signal a new set of attitudes in both parties. In part, the shift in attitude may have reflected the rise of the “fighter mafia ,” replacing the “bomber mafia ” in Air Force  command circles. The net result was a mutual recognition that the Army  and the Air Force depended upon one another. The Army  knew that it could notHOLLEY 593  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 617 --- operate without air cover, and the Air Force  understood that it depended heavily upon ground forces  to screen its air bases. The Army  and Air Force  achieved much of the rapprochement between 1946 and 1986, culminating in major doctrinal promulgations by both services. These specified the roles of each service in the new partnership called “AirLand Battle ,” even though in actual fact the devised doctrines extended beyond any given “battle” to the campaign as a whole. Confidence in the viability of the concept of AirLand Battle  increased as a result of the authentication it acquired from repeated testing of its features in Red Flag  force-on-force air combat trials and Blue Flag  air-ground command post exercises. Although the services achieved heartening advances in harmonizing air-ground cooperation by tactical units, agreement proved harder to obtain at the operational level of command. Airmen have long insisted that, for optimum effect, the character of airpower demands centralized control  and decentralized execution . But should this leave every decision on the allocation of sorties—for interdiction , by way of example—entirely to the judgment of the air component commander ? Understandably, Army  corps commanders, under heavy pressure from the enemy, objected to being left to the mercy of a decision by a distant air component commander —especially since the intelligence  for making such decisions would have to come from ground sources. Experience from World War II