uired by the given situation and choose the best approach. As discussed above, planners  often overstate the concept of data fusion , which will not supplant a continued requirement for military genius. 71 Conclusion Clearly, the characteristics of airpower and space power  are quite different, as indicated by highlighting their relative advantages (table 2). Only the characteristic of technological dependence shows a significant similarity between airpower and space power . One should note, however, that tech no-logical advances will mitigate some of the differences in characteristics. Unfavorable characteristics of airpower may change significantly with the advent of long-loiter UAVs , whileDEBLOIS 563  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 587 --- unfavorable characteristics of space power  may change with the advent of transatmospheric vehicles (TAV) . Determining whether or not a given characteristic is advantageous to airpower as opposed to space power —or vice versa—is debatable and not critical to the argument. The significant differences between airpower and space power  discussed within the context of each characteristic, however, are critical to the argument. In spite of the potential for some technological mitigation of the vast differences in the characteristics of airpower and space power , one must conclude that the aerospace power conjecture is false . That is, one cannot build space power theory  and doctrine in general upon airpower theory and doctrine. Theories and doctrines of airpower, land power , and sea power  mayTable 2 Characteristic Advantages of Airpower and Space Power Airpower Space Power Politics Political access to the realm Sovereignty Likelihood of reduced casualties Development/ EmploymentCentralized C2 Decentralized execution Realm Access Access to the realm (operations) Access to the realm (maintenance/support) Realm EnvironmentComposition of the realm Size of the realm Position of the realm Realm-Afforded CapabilityAutonomy