h president Charles de Gaulle  and his alleged anti-Americanism, but the roots of the split lie much deeper. 16 For NATO , beyond having to move its headquarters from Paris to Brussels , the French withdrawal posed problems related to its military strategy : in times of crisis, what role would French forces play, and to what extent would they be reintegrated into the NATO  command structure? And how would France  employ the nuclear forces it was developing? According to French defense planners, the answer to that question depended upon the military situation in Europe  in relation to France .17 One of the fundamental issues NATO planners  dealt with in the formative years of the alliance was the kind of attack they could expect from the Warsaw Pact .18 Options included a full-scale conventional attack following a buildup of forces; a more limited attack against key NATO  installations (particularly nuclear ones), utilizing a high degree of surprise; or a full-scale conventional attack with minimum warning time. Compounding this problem was the need for USTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 446  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 470 --- reinforcements to arrive in time to shore up NATO  forces— believed insufficient to thwart the Warsaw Pact ’s advances. NATO military planning  assumed the worst case—an all-out attack with limited warning. Furthermore, in a comparison of NATO  weaknesses to the opposition’s perceived strengths, planners  tended to assume that any such war would be of short duration. The key question was how soon US reinforcements could close on the continent. The first formal statement of strategy, Military Committee (MC) Report 14/1, adopted at the Lisbon summit in 1952, 19 dealt with the counteroffensive. That is, if Soviet forces invaded, a light force of 20–30 NATO  divisions would screen the attack until US strategic air forces could arrive to deliver an atomic interdiction  blow against the invaders. NATO  would then launch a ground offensive to recov