c air war , with aircraft capable of delivering nuclear weapons . More importantly, he downgraded conventional ground forces and moved the major share of the defense budget  to strategic rocket forces, with an eye toward preemptive  strikes. But the realization that NATO nuclear forces were at least a generation ahead of the Soviets’ led to a gradual shift from offensive thinking to defensive. The war in the Gulf  had a chilling impact on Soviet thinking. The miserable performance of Soviet arms in Iraqi hands proved profoundly disturbing. The tank-heavy Soviet army  found it especially disconcerting that tanks had become “an endangered species without control of the air” (p. 508). Although senior Soviet officers, in characteristic authoritarian fashion, tended to stifle criticisms arising from elaborate analysis of the Gulf War  experience, younger officers managed to come up with a realistic assessment of the future character of air war  that parallels US airpower theory in many respects. Notably, the pendulum of theory once again swung back from Mikhail Gorbachev ’s “defensive doctrine ” to an appreciation for the primacy of the offensive. The collapse of the Soviet Union  leaves the significance of this shift very much in doubt—especially insofar as it relates to investments in research and development  for space. The final substantive chapter in this volume attempts to provide a rigorous analysis of the comparative characteristics of airpower and space power . The analysis is indeed illuminating, dealing as it does with the radically different characteristics of the air and space realms. However, in contrast to the earlier chapters of this book, which treat their subjects historically and descriptively, this chapter sets up what its author calls a space power  conjecture, positing that space power  is merely an extension of airpower. Major DeBlois then sets out to demonstrate that the conjecture is false. The Air Force , he concludes, will eventually have to cu