ly refuted the theses of Douhet . For example, in contrast to Douhet ’s opposition to air reserve  forces, Mecozzi  stressed the importance of maintaining an air reserve  for employment during critical moments of the ground battle , illustrating his principles with examples from the world war. 34 In another article, Mecozzi denied Douhet ’s denigration of defending against aerial bombardment by proposing, in detail, a coordinated air defense plan for Italy , with fighter groups covering specific zones. 35 The heart of Mecozzi ’s air theories was his proposal for the organization of the air force  into three units: a strategic bomber force to attack the enemy nation, a naval air force to oppose the enemy’s navy, and a third force to oppose the enemy’s army. Of the three forces, the one created to oppose the enemy army and to support the Italian army  would be primary and, accordingly, would receive the largest share of aircraft and personnel. 36 From the time he began his articles in the 1920s until the outbreak of World War II , Mecozzi ’s concepts gained ever greater popularity within the Italian air force  and military High Command. 37 Mecozzi ’s ideas strongly influenced Air Marshal Italo Balbo , Italian air minister from 1926 to 1933. Although Balbo  often praised Douhet , unofficial prophet of Italian air doctrine , his reverence for Douhet  was more for show than for real. With his strong connections to the Fascist Party , Douhet  became a popular figure in Italy , so senior air force  officers claimed to follow Douhet  as a display of Fascist correctness. In practice, though, Balbo  tended to uphold the concepts of support  and assault aviation  as propounded by Mecozzi . As early as 1929,THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 160  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 188 --- under Balbo ’s direction, the Italian air force  organized tactical ground-attack units and practiced maneuvers based upon Mecozzi ’s ideas. 38 In 1931 the Italian air force  established its first gr