e Russians. They saw Desert Storm  as a new type of combat—the electronic fire operation —consisting of surprise attacks  involving massed and prolonged missile, aerospace, electronic, and naval strikes conducted for several days or weeks. Further, the Russians thought that by disrupting the military-economic capability to ensure victory in political and economic arenas, these operations would deny the enemy the ability to continue the war and reconstitute his forces. Unlike massed ground warfare , these attacks did not aim to seize and occupy land. Differences with Pre–Gulf War Military Doctrine C. J. Dick  points out that the new draft military doctrine was drawn up by a General Staff that had not “undergone a revolution of the mind and who, far from being in tune with Gorbachevian  ‘new thinking’ were still unreconstructed Cold War  warriors paying lip service to perestroika  while trying to preserve the old system as far as they could.” This situation divorced the new military doctrine  from government policy and reality. In many ways, the new doctrine  resembled the old, viewing the world through a distorted prism. It remained hostile to the West—implicitly, if not explicitly. Even after four years of internal political, economic, ideological, and social strife, the new military doctrine  persisted in worst-case analysis. According to Dick , the Russian military failed to recognize this approach as a major cause of the collapse of the Soviet economy in the first place. 102 In a marked departure from the pre–Gulf War  Gorbachev era, the new doctrine  made no provision for restricting the scale or depth of the Russian army ’s counteroffensive. Additionally, it made no explicit references to defensive strategy or defensive operations. In many ways, the new military doctrine  reminded one of Brezhnev  doctrine, albeit a high-tech version. But it differed significantly from that of the Gorbachev  era in several other ways. Specifically, the old doctrine  had emphasi