ent killing on the battlefield, “AIR may stop men or their supplies arriving at the battle-field at all” (emphasis in original). 59 In fact, he saw airpower as the antidote to modern weapons of surface warfare . In keeping with the book’s focus of assuming a land campaign , airpower’s role was “to assist and co-operate with the army in the defeat of the enemy’s army, and of such air forces as may be co-operating with it.” 60 As will soon become clear, this translated into attacking the communications and supply lines of the enemy forces—interdiction —rather than conducting strategic air strikes  against the enemy’s vital centers . The first requirement for assisting the army, however, was obtaining air superiority , because without it, ground operations  would fail. In fact, Slessor  hinted that achieving air superiority  may of itself cause the enemy to surrender, “but these are not the conditions which it is the object of this work to examine.” 61 He realized, however, that air supremacy  over an entire theater was unlikely and unnecessary due to the immensity of space. He therefore stressed the need for localTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 62  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 91 --- air superiority , but even this was difficult and required constant maintenance. Air superiority  was not a phase; it required persistence. Slessor  also emphasized that winning the air superiority campaign demanded initiative. Here he echoed the views of his mentor, Trenchard , by noting the importance of morale . One did not achieve victory by waiting for the enemy but by striking first and hard. 62 Slessor  did not advocate the bombing  of airfields, which he considered ineffective and at best a temporary nuisance; nor did he see much utility in air patrols. Such activities might prove useful, but the primary means of destroying the enemy air force remained air combat . One must bring the enemy air force to battle, but this could be difficult. Unlike armies that had to fight in order