ting massive retaliation  and at the same time calling for a relatively benign air policing  strategy, de Seversky  created a contradiction that he never resolved. One may attribute this ambivalence, in part, to de Seversky ’s role as a transitional figure. He joined the military theorists  and doctrine formulators of the 1920s and 1930sMEILINGER 265  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 292 --- (represented by Douhet , Mitchell , and the ACTS  instructors) and the civilian academicians of the 1950s and 1960s (characterized by Bernard Brodie  and Herman Kahn ). Physically and intellectually, he had a foot in both camps: as a former combat pilot and reserve officer, he could relate to the military pilots of the Air Corps . As a businessman, designer, and writer, he also was at home with civilian thinkers who devised elaborate models to describe “the balance of terror.” De Seversky  continued to write at a frenetic pace until the mid-1960s, publishing one more book in 1961, America—Too Young to Die,  and scores more articles. 86 Although he continued to move in and out of various business ventures, his heart never seemed in them; preaching the gospel of airpower remained his primary interest. In truth, his writings became increasingly repetitious and technologically dated. The major was not an expert either in jet engine technology  or the airframe design it required, and his writings on guided missiles  and spaceflight  were embarrassingly off the mark. 87 By the late 1950s, little of what de Seversky  wrote retained either originality or interest, although he did play a useful role at Maxwell AFB, Alabama , where he periodically lectured young officers on airpower theory . Over the years, he lectured to over one hundred thousand officers, reminding them of their duty to study and promote airpower. Even in his seventies, he could deliver a spellbinding speech laced with his own peculiar brand of humor and metaphor. At Maxwell , he felt at home. The major died i