ul than the atomic  devices detonated over Japan , became part of the American arsenal. Confrontation with the Soviet Union  quickly turned de Seversky  into a cold warrior, profoundly suspicious of the Kremlin’s motives: “They would break every promise they make if it suits them.”71 (One certainly wonders whether his Russian heritage gave him special insights or peculiar biases.) Pessimistically, he thought that the Soviet worldview was irreconcilable with the West’s, thus making violent confrontation inevitable. If this were true, then his arguments regarding the folly of contesting with a powerful land foe by building a large army seem appropriate. To de Seversky , common sense demanded that America  face such an enemy by utilizing its unique strength—aeronautical technology .THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 260  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 287 --- De Seversky  believed that America  remained inherently an airpower nation. Young people should see their destinies in the sky—a notion of his that antedated the war. In fact, some of his earliest radio broadcasts were for young listeners and explained how airplanes worked, how he had become interested in them, and why airpower was essential to America ’s future. 72 His persuasion extended to adults as well: “In this aeronautical age we ought to become a nation of aviators, in order to achieve mastery of the sky—just as in the past, in the age of sea power , England  was a nation of sailors.” He then expanded on this analogy: Rome had been the master on land, England  on sea, and now America  in the air. All used this mastery of a particular medium to dominate the world and give it peace. 73 The major was convinced that America  had the advantage in this crucial area. Not only had we employed strategic airpower  in the war while the Soviet Union  had not, but also we were fortunate in having friendly neighbors. The Soviets, on the other hand, had to build a large army  to protect their vulnerable and extensive border