upremely self-confident, earned him exile to the infantry. 9 Unfortunately, Douhet ’s methods for advancing the cause of airpower tended to work at cross-purposes to his goals. Douhet  was serving as a division chief of staff at Edolo when Europe blundered into World War I  in July 1914. He was unable to resist a prophecy. In August, barely a month after the beginning of the conflict, he wrote an article titled “Who Will Win?” In it, he stated that modern war had become total war. Moreover, because the industrial revolution of the previous century allowed the mass production of weapons, the quick wars of annihilation predicted by many people had become a thing of the past. Douhet  warned instead that the new war now begun would be long and costly. Nonetheless, he concluded that in the long run, the difficulties of fighting on multiple fronts would spell defeat for the Central Powers. Although Italy  had at that point declined to enter the war on the side of the entente, Douhet  called for a military buildup— especially in airpower—in case the effort to maintain neutrality failed. Even in his peripatetic position in Lombardy, Douhet , now a colonel, peppered his superiors with ideas on airpower. In December 1914 he wrote that Italy  should build an air force whose purpose was “to gain command of the air” so as to render the enemy “harmless.” According to Douhet , “To gain command of the air is to be able to attack with impunity any point of the enemy’s body.”10 In another essay, he suggested that five hundred bombers  be built to strike “theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 4  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 33 --- most vital, most vulnerable and least protected points of the enemy’s territory.”11 He maintained that such an armada could drop 125 tons of bombs daily. After Italy  plunged into the war in 1915, Douhet  was so shocked by his army’s incompetence and unpreparedness that he frequently wrote his superiors, suggesting organizational reform and increased use of t