ounter to air attack , he insisted that antiaircraft fire and interceptors were ineffective and would remain so. Moreover, Douhet  denied to defensive airpower  the same flexibility , speed, and ability to mass that he granted the offense. Even before the invention of radar, this attitude is not understandable. As early as 1917, the British had established a sophisticated system of air defense , consisting of multiple “spotting stations” connected by telephone to a centralTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 26  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 55 --- headquarters in London. Telephones tied this headquarters to various airfields housing interceptor squadrons. These airfields, in turn, maintained contact with their airborne aircraft via wireless. The system was relatively effective, as Douhet  must have known. 62 In one of his more memorable and maladroit comments, Douhet  mused, “Nothing man can do on the surface of the earth can interfere with a plane in flight, moving freely in the third dimension.” 63 Once again, one searches for the lieutenant who began his career as an artillery officer. He must have known that Allied gunners shot down more than one thousand German aircraft  during the war and that because of improvements in fusing, the number of rounds fired to achieve a hit fell by one-half between 1915 and 1918. 64 He should have expected continued improvements in air defenses , yet he ignored them. One must note that Douhet  predicated his argument regarding the inherently offensive nature of the airplane on the belief that only aircraft could stop other aircraft. Given the vastness of the sky, this position has some merit, though not as much as Douhet  claimed. It has even less merit, however, if one admits that antiaircraft guns can also be effective against air attack . In such an instance, the numerical advantage gained by an attacker achieving tactical surprise and avoiding airborne interception quickly evaporates. Theoretically, if antiaircraft guns are extr