ffective national destruction. 11 Subsequent developments in nuclear warhead technology have occurred around the margins, as weapons have become smaller with specialized characteristics—such as reduced or enhanced radiation effects or penetration ability. 12 With the arrival of thermonuclear  warheads, the locus of nuclear development shifted to the systems used to deliver weapons to their targets. Delivery Systems Heavy strategic bombers  designed to carry conventional bombs dropped the first nuclear weapons  on their targets, and bombers  remained the only major nuclear-delivery system for the following decade. Subsequent generations of bombers offered advancements in payload, range, and speed, especially with the arrival of jet engines and aerial refueling . Designers increasingly optimized aircraft to carry nuclear weapons , although most also retained some capability to deliver conventional ordnance. The problem of penetrating enemy air defenses  became more difficult with the development and evolution of surface-to-air missiles (SAM) , necessitating the development of higher- and faster-flying bombers . In theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 282  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 308 --- 1960s, emphasis shifted to penetrating enemy territory at very low altitudes in order to evade detection and interception. The 1950s saw the development of missiles  as nuclear-delivery systems, beginning with short -, medium -, and intermediate-range  ballistic missiles (S-, M-, and IRBM), and culminating in intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM) , capable of striking the United States  from bases in the Soviet Union  or vice versa. The first public demonstration of an ICBM  occurred when the USSR  used such a rocket to launch Sputnik I  into orbit as the first artificial satellite in 1957, producing unprecedented alarm in a United States accustomed both to virtual invulnerability to direct attack and to a comfortable lead on the Soviets in all things technological. ICBMs  an