epeated deliberations about how to deploy the American MX  (Peacekeeper) missile in the 1970s and 1980s. 24 However, the presence of a variety of types of strategic nuclear weapons  systems complicated the problem of launching a disarming first strike. Much as the rock-scissors-paper interactions of infantry, cavalry, and artillery dominated Napoleonic land warfare, the triad  of bombers , ICBMs , and SLBMs  proved quite robust during most of the cold war . Once the target state detected a first-strikeMUELLER 287  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 313 --- ICBM  launch, it would have perhaps 25 minutes to launch a large number of alert bombers . On the other hand, if the attack began with a rapid SLBM  strike to catch the bombers on the ground, the target might have time to launch its intact ICBM  force in retaliation before the enemy could attack it. And no matter how one planned an attack, it could not destroy the enemy’s patrolling missile submarines , which would therefore provide a robust second-strike capability against area targets such as cities. 25 Strategic Defenses All of these calculations assumed that, as Douhet  and Stanley Baldwin  had once predicted about conventional airpower , the bombers  (and the missiles ) would always get through—or at least that enough of them would to inflict catastrophic losses on the target nation. One had considerable incentive to intercept attacking missiles  and aircraft—a familiar problem during the bomber  age. As had happened before, the capabilities of fighter  aircraft to intercept bombers and of bombers to avoid interception raced against each other as speeds, ceilings, rates of climb, ranges, firepower, and sensor capabilities improved. SAMs , first developed by Germany  at the end of the Second World War , joined the combination of early warning radars, interceptors , and antiaircraft artillery (AAA) . The United States  deployed SAMs , air-to-air  missiles, and rockets armed with small nuclear warheads t