of the atomic bombs . Expecting to find Hiroshima and Nagasaki  “vaporized,” he instead found the burned-out rubble characteristic of German cities that had suffered extensive aerial or artillery bombardment. ThisMEILINGER 259  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 286 --- discovery led him to conclude that the importance of the atomic  bomb was greatly exaggerated; to him, it was just another weapon. In fact, in one interview he referred to it as a mere “firecracker” that created much noise and light but little else. This stance gained him much criticism from both scientists and political leaders—and even labeled him a military conservative! 70 De Seversky ’s argument on this subject was not mature. Although the ability to use the medium of the air had revolutionized the nature of war, dismissing atomic  bombs as merely new weapons of little import was simplistic. One must exploit the air medium—and do this through the actual employment of weaponry. Thus, airmen should have appreciated the great importance of developing air weapons, but such was not the case. Little effort had gone into developing aerial bombs between the world wars. The fact that iron blockbusters of 1917 were quite similar to those of 1945—and remained so for another three decades—proved to be a major oversight. Without effective weapons, the military often wasted airpower. Thus, although the Allies had air superiority  over Germany  and Japan , they could not force a rapid decision because their bombs were either too weak or, more importantly, too inaccurate to do so. Initially, de Seversky  also fell into the myopic snare of not recognizing the importance of radical new air weapons such as the atomic bomb. He did, however, change his views when the hydrogen bomb , hundreds of times more powerful than the atomic  devices detonated over Japan , became part of the American arsenal. Confrontation with the Soviet Union  quickly turned de Seversky  into a cold warrior, profoundly suspicious of t