rest in insurgencies  in the professional literature. 22 This was particularly true at Air University , Maxwell AFB, Alabama , where a number of student research papers directly addressed issues related to airpower and the wars in Southeast Asia . One of the earliest of these research efforts showed the influence of the Air Force fascination with nuclear weapons , the author calling for their use to seal off the borders of Laos and Vietnam . He went on to address the problem of finding enemy forces who used guerrilla tactics  by suggesting the use of “napalm blankets” to burn off the jungle cover, and the application of chemical defoliants to kill vegetation too wet to burn.23 Although the report was extreme in its recommendation of nuclear weapons , the suggestion for defoliation proved prescient, given the Operation Ranchhand defoliation program that began in January 1962. 24 During 1962 and 1963, Air University  students produced a number of insightful research papers concerning US involvement in Southeast Asia . In general, they all addressed counterguerrilla uses of airpower , but, in fact, most put the problem in the broader context of counterinsurgency . They reflected a general appreciation of the civil-military duality in protracted revolutionary warfare  and an awareness of the inappropriateness of airpower’s traditional focus. 25 One of theDREW 329  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 355 --- studies called into question all firepower missions and maintained that the supporting roles of airpower (airlift , psychological operations , etc.) would likely prove most important. 26 Others, however, remained sanguine about the use of aerial firepower against insurgents, even in the difficult jungle terrain of Southeast Asia : “To moan the lack of strategic targets  or the ability to see tactical targets  and therefore conclude that air power is limited is to overlook the inherent flexibility of the air vehicle. There is no such thing as limitations or imp