superiority  battle as a diversion.34 This reversal from previous doctrine no doubt reflected a desire to avoid the counterforce battle . The Great War  had degenerated into a bloody slugfest between opposing forces; airpower was supposed to eliminate—not perpetuate—that intermediate step to victory. The most important aspect of AP 1300 was the extent to which it discussed the rationale behind strategic bombing  and the selection of targets . The choice of bombing objectives depended on five factors: the nature of the war and the enemy; the general war plan of the government; diplomatic considerations; the range of the bombers ; and the strength of the enemy air defenses . As a general rule, the manual opined that “objectives should be selected the bombardment of which will have the greatest effect in weakening the enemy resistance and his power to continue war.” 35 In some cases, this meant attacking the “vital centres ” of an enemy country rather than assisting armies and navies directly. Vital areas included organized systems of production, supply, communications, and transportation: “If these are exposed to air attack , the continual interruption, delay and organization of the activities of these vital centres  by sustained air bombardment will usually be the most effective contribution which can be made by air power towards breaking down the enemy’s resistance.” 36 Interestingly, theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 54  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 83 --- manual also noted that one needed in-depth understanding of an enemy country. Although AP 1300 did not use the term economic intelligence,  that is precisely what it meant. Such intelligence , hitherto unnecessary in warfare, now became essential. One should note that AP 1300 never referred to the bombing  of population centers, suggesting targets  of a military nature only. Yet, it repeated the decade-old adage that victory in war resulted from the collapse of civilian morale . How could one break the will  o