ondence on this issue. Sure enough, Spaatz  signed the document, but it was drafted by one of his subordinates—Hoyt Vandenberg . Is it not ironic that the two men who later became the first and second chief of staff, respectively, of the newly established US Air Force  both displayed so little imagination in grappling with this critical problem? De Seversky  was a brilliant designer but a mediocre businessman, so nudging him out of control of his company so that it could achieve a high level of production was probably a prudent move. But did Hap Arnold  handle the transition as tactfully as he should have? The depth of Arnold ’s involvement remains unclear, but given the assault on de Seversky ’s self-esteem, not only ousting him from his position but also wounding his pride by changing the name of his company to Republic Aircraft  was probably a mistake. Surely, Arnold  might have expended greater effort in assuaging de Seversky ’s damaged ego. This too was an aspect of airpower thinking. Arnold ’s failure would cost him—and the air arm—dearly. Was de Seversky  a good publicist and propagandist? He was certainly indefatigable, and undoubtedly he had a profound impact upon public opinion in the United States . Nonetheless, he too was a flawed thinker. His petty vindictiveness toward Arnold  was counterproductive, and his public criticism of the Air Force  would have been more productive if done privately. Even more serious was his unexplained but implacable criticism of the Navy , which was rapidly turning into an effective carrier  service, even as he lambasted battleship dogma. Did the atomic  bomb substantiate Douhet ’s and Mitchell ’s claims about strategic  bombing? Well, yes and no. On the one hand, the atom  bomb certainly made it possible to destroy a nation. On the other hand, nations soon learned that the balance of terror—usually presented as the doctrine of mutually assured destruction (MAD) —gave political and military leaders reason to peer over the ab