icantly distinguish space power  from airpower. Correspondingly, these differences drive different capabilities. Realm-Afforded Capability Characteristics of Military Power Autonomy of operation, surveillance  and reconnaissance , duration (staying power/presence), range, maneuver,  flexibilityDEBLOIS 555  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 579 --- of response, precision, speed of response, firepower, and stealth  are all capability characteristics of military power. As one might expect, differences in political, logistical, and environmental characteristics between the air and space realms dictate differences in the ability to project military power from those realms. In order to make a fair comparison of air and space capability, one must assume the existence of a reasonable number of space-based surveillance  and strike-capable assets. Clearly, a capability comparison between an existing developed force (airpower) and an existing but immature force (space power ) would not prove very useful. Decisions made today will influence force structure  and capabilities 20 years from now. Assuming a more mature space power  appropriately levels the playing field upon which those decisions are made. Autonomy Evaluation of this characteristic assumes that system dependence on external information is undesirable. Lack of autonomy represents vulnerability. This view does not advocate complete decentralization but simply recognizes the fact that, necessary or not, external dependence further exposes the system. Considering just the communications aspect of any spaceborne system , one notes that large-scale data transmission capacities will require innovations in both data transmission (bandwidth and data-link security) and processing (expert systems for data synthesis and computing power). The advent of remotely piloted airborne vehicles  will place the same requirements on many airborne platforms. The critical element in the evaluation of this characteristic is not whe