rst, the bad news (and the answer to both questions put forward at the outset): once technological development allows us to pursue the full spectrum of roles and missions  from space, and the domestic will recognizes that the capability justifies the cost, the Air Force  will have to cut its child loose in the form of a new Space Force .72 Ironically, this essay has repeatedly cited Joint Doctrine Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (JDTTP) 3-14, Space Operations,  to support many statements made herein, even though the essay’s conclusion is diametrically opposed to Rear Adm Richard Macke ’s opening statement in that publication: Space cannot be considered a separate warfare arena. It crosses all warfare areas and all warfare services. Just as space surrounds and encompasses the entire globe, it surrounds, encompasses, and supports all warriors. To say space is the battleground of any unique warfighting group is paramount to disaster. All warfighters, regardless of the device on their chest or color of their uniform, must embrace space, understand space, and use space or be destined not to enjoy the tremendous advantage space can give. 73 This is simply wrong. If one subtracts 50 years and replaces space  with air, the same old flawed argument presents itself. It became apparent then, as it does now, that the characteristics of the new realm differed so dramatically from those of the current realms, that one needed a new service to organize, train, and equip forces in order to employ the tenets and satisfy the roles and missions  assigned to joint military forces. The statement in JDTTP 3-14 indicates an attitude of responsibility sharing that has forced the military away from a basic tenet of space power —centralized control . An elite Air Force Association (AFA)  advisory group made the statement, “Who’s in charge of the space program is the fundamental problem” (emphasis in original). That is on target. However, the group erred in concluding that “the solution li