chnical obstacles to building large aircraft. His trumpeting of the Douglas B-19 and Martin flying boat  proved premature. He designed a “superclipper” in the late 1930s, but it never got off the drawing board due to technical difficulties. Although the B-29THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 268  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 295 --- constituted a significant advance over the B-17  and B-24 , it did not approach the capabilities de Seversky  called for in an interhemispheric bomber . Even the massive B-36 —not a viable weapon until 1950—fell short of his predictions. In sum, building large aircraft differed significantly from designing fighter  planes. He did not foresee that precisely because total war — especially in the nuclear age—was “unprofitable,” warfare would be limited or driven down to the unconventional level; such wars dissipated airpower’s advantages. De Seversky argued passionately against America ’s involvement in limited wars  such as those in Korea  and Vietnam . He assumed this stance partly for cogent strategic reasons: if the Soviet threat to Europe  represented the major concern, then one should not become distracted by relatively minor conflicts in Asia . On the other hand, his admission of strategic airpower ’s effectiveness against modern industrialized nations amounted to a tacit admission of its ineffectiveness against poor agrarian societies. And admitting the limited, “low intensity ” nature of future wars amounted to admitting that airpower had clear limitations. That was unacceptable. Finally, to an illogical and unreasonable degree, he denigrated the importance of armies and navies. Even in the total wars  he predicted, surface forces  would have played a greater role than merely serving as airfield gate guards and bomb transporters. One of the distressing traits of airpower theorists  is their tendency to claim too much for their chosen weapon. Airpower does not have to win wars alone  in order to be decisive , any more than does an ar