ovided a discourse on the effects of modern weapons that graphically depicted their increased range and lethality from World War II  to the Middle East War  of 1973. The chapter’s most arresting statement took the form of a stern injunction to its readers about the capabilities of the modern tanker: “What he can see, he can hit. What he can hit, he can kill.” 14 The manual’s conceptual heart lay in chapter 3, “How to Fight.” Here, soldiers learned that “the most demanding mission that could be assigned the US Army  remains battle in Central Europe against the forces of the Warsaw Pact ” (emphasis in original) and that generals concentrate the forces, colonels direct the battle, and captains fight the battle. 15 The manual also informed them of the many advantages of firepower: “MASSIVE AND VIOLENT FIREPOWER IS A CHIEF INGREDIENT OF COMBAT POWER. . . . FIREPOWER SAVES MANPOWER AND THUS SAVES LIVES” (emphasis in original). 16 Contrary to many popular conceptions, the manual gave almost equal coverage to offensive and defensive operations, providing 12 pages to the former and 14 to the latter. It also stated explicitly in the defensive chapter that “attack is a vital part of all defensive operations”  (emphasis in original). 17 Nevertheless, in the face of the overwhelming numbers of Warsaw Pact  tanks envisioned on a breakthrough frontage, the manual stipulated that active defense (theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 406  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 431 --- phrase from which the doctrine  drew its appellation) in the main battle area would have to be elastic and that “counterattacks should be conducted only when the gains to be achieved are worth the risks involved in surrendering the innate advantages of the defender.” 18 Of particular interest to this essay is chapter 8, “Air-Land Battle,” the second paragraph of which explicitly addressed the Army ’s dependence upon the Air Force : “Both the Army and the Air Force  deliver firepower against the enemy. Both can ki