Unfortunately, after World War I  the United States  “found itself with an Air Service  which throughTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 212  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 239 --- necessity had been hurriedly gotten together and consequently poorly trained and inadequately organized.” 121 One solution to these problems was a formalized and progressive school system. On 25 February 1920 the War Department  authorized the creation of 11 Air Service  schools, including what soon became the Air Service Field Officers’ School . The air arm then ordered Maj Thomas Milling , a protégé and former chief of staff of Billy Mitchell  in Europe , to Langley Field, Virginia . Milling ’s charter, as he understood it, was to organize ASFOS ; train officers to become competent commanders and staff officers of air units, up to and including the air brigade and army level; teach these same officers air tactics; and originate sound tactical doctrine for the Air Service  as a whole .122 In order to accomplish these goals, Milling  recruited Maj William Sherman  as his assistant. Sherman  had also worked for General Mitchell  in AEF  and in the postwar Air Service Training and Operations Group . (Like Milling , he was a disciple of the flamboyant Mitchell .) With Sherman  as his assistant, Milling hoped to develop the Field Officers’ School—which the Army renamed the Air Service Tactical School  in 1922—into the clearinghouse for air tactics and doctrine in the Army . Unfortunately, only the most meager data on air doctrine  was available at the time. 123 As a result, the school first had to rely on a smorgasbord of diffused and uncoordinated texts that competed, in good Darwinian fashion, for the hearts and minds of students and operators alike. Although ASFOS /ASTS  used texts developed by a variety of sources, the majority of the early materials were Army -centered and trivialized the possible impact of air bombardment. Air Service  information circulars 56, 57, 73, 75, 84, and 87—all of