ed for them and never reached production. For the military to utilize airpower effectively, de Seversky called for a defense department with equal branches for land, sea, and air. He remained convinced that the older services would never allow airpower to reach its full potential as a strategic weapon, simply be cause they did not understand it. Similarly, airpower needed to remain separate and distinct at the theater and tactical levels. Because of its great speed, range, and flexibility, airpower  should be centralized and used en masse over the entire depth and breadth of a theater.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 254  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 281 --- Under the control of land or sea commanders, airpower  would languish at the tactical level and would not realize maximum effectiveness. De Seversky ’s last message in Victory through Air Power dealt with targeting . If airpower  were indeed an inherently strategic weapon, then one should take great care to determine the proper objectives for an air campaign . The fact that bombers  could strike anything did not mean they should strike every thing. Most air theorists  argued that all countries had vital centers  which allowed the state to function effectively: government, industry, transportation networks, financial systems, power grids, and so forth. Precisely which of those objectives were most vital and which specific targets within those categories one should attack and in what priority remained unclear. Douhet , for example, merely stated that the will of the civilian population was the key objective, allowing the “genius of the commander” to determine how best to affect that will .49 De Seversky  was similarly vague. He did, however, reject popular will  as a specific target, although not for humanitarian reasons. The war had demonstrated a surprising human resiliency, and prewar predictions of urban populations quickly panicking and breaking under air attack  had proven wrong. De Seversky  therefore emph