’s aviation is to be sought out and attacked forward of his own troops. The opponent is to be pushed onto the defensive, and his power and aggressiveness broken by the destruction of numerous aircraft.” 74 The postwar study established other principles of airpower as well. Although it recognized army support aviation , such as reconnaissance  and artillery spotting , as an important mission, the primary mission of an air force remained bombing  enemy targets. The air force had to attain air superiority  to carry out its primary, offensive bombing mission. The use of light and heavy bombers  was central to the air force mission. The primary duty of the air force was to provide interdiction  in support of the army, but postwar German airpower theory  left considerable room for the development of strategic aviation for strategic-level interdiction missions. Along with Helmut Wilberg  and his staff, which included famous air commanders  such as Capt Kurt Student , Maj Hugo Sperrle , and Maj Helmuth Felmy , the most significant German airpower thinker in the postwar era was Colonel General von Seeckt , chief of staff of the army from 1919 to 1920 and army commander in chief from 1920 to 1926. Von Seeckt  reoriented the German army  according to his own notions of future warfare, theorizing that the mass armies of World War I  were obsolete and that the next war would be fought by small but highly trained and highly mobile professional armies, which would envelop and destroy their enemies by maneuver. This stance contrasted that of the Allied armies , who considered firepower more important than maneuver . Airpower played a central role in von Seeckt ’s theory. Air force missions would gain air superiority  and then so disrupt the enemy mobilization and transport system that rapidly moving ground forces  could encircle and destroy enemy forces paralyzed by airpower. Von Seeckt  wrote thatTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 170  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 198 --- the war w