yed in small units that . . . usually present poor targets for air attack . In such cases, air support for security and neutralization should be used primarily to inform, deploy, sustain, and reinforce surface elements of the internal security force.” 90 These paragraphs constituted more than a statement of operational doctrine . They embodied airpower theory stated in the best traditions of the early airpower theorists . Like the kind of warfare with which they deal, these paragraphs stand conventional airpower theory on its ear. Thus by 1992 airmen had made considerable progress in modifying traditional airpower theory to the special case of insurgency  or protracted revolutionary warfare . However, during the 1980s and early 1990s, while these events were taking place, a very different chain of events that would stifle and confuse the progress was also under way. The perceived importance of protracted revolutionary warfare  was far from universal. A significant number of military officers—many of them very senior—believed for oneDREW 345  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 371 --- reason or another that special attention to such “unconventional” strategies was ill advised and perhaps counterproductive. For example, in the mid-1980s a very senior Air Force general officer told me that the Air Force should not be distracted by “those kind of wars” (insurgencies ) since we can always just “muddle through.” Rather, we should concentrate on wars “that can eat our bacon.” Eventually, the belief by some senior officers that protracted revolutionary warfare  was ordinary, unimportant, or counterproductive from the standpoint of airpower, eliminated discussion of the subject from the highest level of Air Force doctrine —AFM 1-1,  Basic Aerospace Doctrine of the United States Air Force (1992). The theory so painstakingly developed thus languished at lower levels in an obscure manual of operational doctrine —namely, the aforementioned AFM 2-11. 91 In fact, at one po