y connotes the idea of being in the environment (physically or virtually). Further, it implicitly connotes the idea of global watchfulness or vigilance. The following six roles and missions , created from a base of doctrine  and literature, facilitate comparison between the air and space realms. They reflect the need to recognize both the peacetime and wartime operational roles that support the strategic concept of global presence . The first two deal specifically with ongoing peacetime operations while the last four deal with conventional war-fighting operations: 1. role: realm presence . mission: posturing the full complement of military capability and/or maintaining the recognized capability to access and dominate a particular realm with the intent to deter or compel allies and adversaries in consonance with US national objectives .9 2. role: realm vigilance . mission: continuous monitoring and analysis of and from the realm in support of global awareness . This includes a subset of information operations (weather, intelligence , surveillance , and reconnaissance ). 3. role: realm control . mission (“counterrealm”): discriminating application of combat power against enemy forces within the realm or against their infrastructure supporting the realm. 10THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 532  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 556 --- 4. role: force application . mission: discriminating application of combat power from the realm against critical nodes of an adversary. 11 5. role: force enhancement . mission: enabling military functions in order to multiply combat effectiveness. This includes refueling, special operations , and information operations (electronic combat; weather; intelligence ; command, control, communications, and computers [C 4]; precision navigation; surveillance ; and reconnaissance ).12 6. role: force support . mission (“sustenance of assets; defense”): logistical support (lift, deployment of forces, maintaining/ replenishing/sustaining deployed forces,