FBM) submarines or, colloquially in the United States Navy, “boomers.” 22. The conventional wisdom during most of the cold war held that the Soviets were generally unable to detect and track US and British ballistic missile submarines prior to launch, while the Western navies’ superior acoustic-detection technology and the Soviets’ noisier submarines gave the West a considerably greater but still significantly imperfect ability to track hostile SSBNs. 23. The number of warheads one can fire effectively against a single point target is limited by the problem of fratricide—the tendency of a detonating warhead to destroy those following behind it. 24. Among the more or less exotic basing schemes for the MX was a very expensive “racetrack” (or “shell game”) system of multiple silos per missile connected by underground rail lines, proposed by the Carter administration; air launching from transport aircraft; road or rail mobility; launching from small coastal submarines or from superhardened, deep underground bases; and the Densepack scheme initially favored by the Reagan administration, which clustered missile silos so close together that warhead fratricide would make it impossible to attack more than a portion of them in a single strike. Passive defenses for missile silos were also discussed, including surrounding the silos with fields of closely spaced metal stakes, upon which a warhead would impale and destroy itself before it could detonate. For detailed discussion and analysis, see US Congress, Office of Technology Assessment, MX Missile Basing  (Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office, September 1981). In the end, the 50 MXs were placed in existing Minuteman ICBM silos, which did nothing at all to address the survivability problem. ICBM survivability concerns also led to the Small ICBM (“Midgetman”) program (later canceled) to produce a single-warhead missile to be carried by hardened, off-road mobile launch vehicles. 25. This pattern changed somewhat in the l