n Europe  heightened his interest in the airplane’s military potential. After finishing his General Staff assignment in June 1916, he became deputy head of the Signal Corps Aviation Section  and was promoted to major. He then took advantage of a provision in the National Defense Act of 1916 that lifted the ban on flight training for servicemen over 30 (Mitchell  was 36). From September 1916 to January 1917, he paid a dollar a minute for 1,470 minutes of off-duty flying instruction at the Curtiss Aviation School  in Newport News, Virginia. 10 Mitchell ’s flying “expertise” likely caused the War Department  to send him to Europe  as an aeronautical observer, 11 and he arrived in Paris  four days after America ’s declaration of war on the Central Powers . Two weeks later, he spent 10 days at the front lines observing the progress of French general Robert Nivelle ’s disastrous offensive and visiting French aviation units. He recalled his thoughts after first viewing the deadlock of trench warfare  from the air:CLODFELTER 83  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 112 --- A very significant thing to me was that we could cross the lines of these contending armies in a few minutes in our airplane, whereas the armies had been locked in the struggle, immovable, powerless to advance, for three years. To even stick one’s head over the top of a trench invited death. This whole area over which the Germans and French battled was not more than sixty miles across. It was as though they kept knocking their heads against a stone wall, until their brains were dashed out. They got nowhere, as far as ending the war was concerned. 12 In May, Mitchell  visited the headquarters of Maj Gen Hugh Trenchard , commander in the field of Britain ’s Royal Flying Corps (RFC) . Mitchell  arrived abruptly, wearing an extravagant uniform that he had designed himself, but his unbridled exuberance persuaded the general, who was “decided in manner and very direct in speech,” to give him a three-day d