irly apparent reason. Atomic weapons—and then nuclear weapons—appeared to throw traditional concepts of warfare and strategy out the window. This was virgin territory, and no one quite knew his way—no experience or historical models seemed relevant to this new era. As a result, a new breed of strategists invented a new field of study, related to—but not identical to—traditional airpower thought. Men like Bernard Brodie and Herman Kahn, civilian academicians rather than uniformed professionals, took the fore in thinking and writing about nuclear strategy. These civilians had significant advantages over the airmen who preceded them. Before World War I, airpower had been largely untested, and its impact on war speculative. For many, therefore, it was easy to dismiss the ideas of the air advocates. In the decades after Hiroshima, however, the nuclear theorists had no such problem; everyone recognized the deadly seriousness and import of the new weapon. In addition, although the complexities of conventional war took a lifetime of study, the principles of nuclear theory—assured destruction, deterrence, mutual  assured destruction, and so forth—were relatively straightforward. As one of the contributors to this book wryly puts it, any above-average graduate student can learn the rudiments of this discipline merely by watching the movie Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb . Although an exaggeration, this comment has more than a little truth to it. The product of the labors of these new thinkers was a substantial literature grounded more in the social sciences than in history. Models and case studies replaced historical narrative. Because there was virtually no experience extant on the subject of nuclear war and its effects on a population or its leaders, the new theorists wrote of models and logic. Precisely because there was no experience, there was no proof, and no one could say whether the academicians were right or xxi  File: --- meiling