in between is what Mary FitzGerald  calls the “transition period,” with its reliance on limited nuclear war to deter and defeat worse-case threats. Given the Russians’ analysis from the Gulf War  that they lag the United States  in weapons technology , their policy of nuclear first use makes sense. The revolution in military technology  meant that the Russian Federation  would no longer hold its own in a conventional conflict with the United States . What better way to avert military disaster than to convince their adversary that Russia  would use nuclear weapons  from the very outbreak of war? This tactic provides protection only in the near term and does not solve Russia ’s other problems with military technology .118 In short, this threat of a return to massive retaliation  may have a healthy component of deception,THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 516  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 540 --- designed to delay the outbreak of a conflict until Russia masters new advances in warfare. According to Andrei Kokoshin , civilian deputy defense minister in charge of Russia ’s military-industrial complex (VPK) , the new doctrine  focuses R&D  efforts to create a “scientific-technical reserve in critical technologies .”119 The new doctrine  reduces serial production but maintains R&D and production capacity to rapidly surge new technology  when required. This allows the R&D  effort to “hover,” so that the defense industry can leap over a generation of weapons by focusing on prototypes. Their own analysis of the Gulf War should have taught the Russians that future war  will be short and decisive and will have a fairly short notice. Even the five-month buildup and redeployment during Operation Desert Shield  proved fairly rapid, given the amount of material and personnel involved. Relying on hovering assumes that Russia  will have sufficient strategic warning to change prototypes and hovered technology  into weapons for employment. The timing of future war  may leave the Russian