ehrmacht  in June 1941. Even so, the fact that a handful of men could begin with the ramshackle Russian air force  of the civil war era and within a decade and a half turn it into a formidable air force, ranks as one of the great accomplishments in airpower history. Although Soviet air doctrine  often overreached the capabilities of available technology , in most respects it was eminently well suited to theCORUM 167  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 195 --- Soviet nation and, as regards the  creation of airborne forces, was far in advance of that of other countries. Germany One can attribute a great part of the success of the Wehrmacht  from 1939 to 1941 to the effective use of airpower. Of all the Continental nations after World War I , Germany made the most thorough and comprehensive study of airpower and, by means of analysis, managed to transform airpower theory  into a highly effective war doctrine by the outbreak of World War II . Although the interwar period featured many German civilian commentators and theorists  of airpower, their impact on military organization and doctrine  proved relatively minor. Airpower thought  in Germany  remained centered in the army and, later, in the air force  General Staff. After World War I , with Germany  forbidden to have an air force , the army maintained a shadow Air Staff within the army  General Staff. The enormous body of experience that the Germans had acquired by 1918 proved advantageous in the creation of airpower theory  in Germany . During World War I , the German air service  had fought every kind of air campaign —tactical, strategic , and support . The German military  contained a large body of highly experienced air commanders  and Air Staff officers. As early as 1916, the German air service  had acquired a centralized command. In fact, in 1916 the air service  proposed that it become an independent branch of the armed forces, equal to the navy  and the army .68 The army General Staff strongly support