e same time, Douhet  realized that the aircraft could become a dominant weapon only if it were freed from the fetters of ground commanders who did not understand this new invention. He therefore advocated the creation of a separate air arm, commanded by airmen. 5 During this period,THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 2  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 31 --- he became close friends with Gianni Caproni , a bright young aircraft engineer who held similar views on the future of aircraft. The two men teamed up to vigorously extol the virtues of airpower in the years ahead. In 1911 Italy  went to war against Turkey  for control of Libya — a war that saw aircraft used for the first time. Amazingly, aircraft were used not only for reconnaissance  but also for artillery spotting, transportation of supplies and personnel, and even bombing of enemy troops, supplies, and facilities— both day and night. In short, most of the traditional roles of airpower employment were identified and attempted during the very first year aircraft saw combat. 6 The following year, Douhet , now a major, was tasked with writing a report on the meaning of the Libyan War for the future employment of aircraft. Perhaps because his superiors and colleagues were less enthusiastic about airpower than he was, Douhet ’s comments were muted. Most of his report dealt with the organization, training, and equipping of the Italian air arm. He did note, however, that although some people thought the primary role of aircraft was reconnaissance , “others” believed that aircraft should be used for “high altitude bombing.” As for who would control airpower, Douhet suggested that aviation units be assigned to each army corps but slyly added, “This would not prevent, where necessary, grouping such flights with the Army Group, or for that matter, the formation of independent air units.” Further, the major called on Italian industry to embrace the new invention and to develop its potential for both commerce and national secu