l political pressure, and economic pressure as an excuse for war is most troubling. 121 Speaking in February 1994, President Yeltsin  called Russia the “guarantor of stability” throughout the former Soviet Union , saying that the fate of ethnic Russians living in neighboring states was “our national concern. . . . When it comes to violations of the lawful rights of Russian people, this is not the exclusive internal affair of some country, but also our national affair, an affair of our state.” 122 He warned East European countries not to join NATO  without Russia . Further, he noted that Russia ’s foreign policy  sought to promote the country’s own interests. Surely, Russia ’s neighbors will worry about these ill-defined rights and the use of military force. Everywhere one looks in Russia  today, the military is implementing ambitious plans to reshape its forces. Clearly, economics and the demise of the Soviet Union  forced a good deal of this restructuring on the Russian military. In many cases, the final force structure  was determined by what the Russians could afford—not what their new doctrine advocated. The Russian air force  is a case in point. 123 The new structure makes the once powerful air defense  forces extinct, with their combat elements absorbed by the Russian air force . The surface-to-air units of the defense forces will go to the ground forces . The independent air armies of the Supreme High Command are restructured into territorial commands, in which frontal aviation forces will also reside. This reorganization fractures the Russians’ air forces vertically and horizontally at the exact time their new doctrine  reinforces what they say they learned about airpower from the Gulf War . With the new doctrine  focused on threats from the “near abroad,”124 army mobile forces have emerged as preeminent. Thus, the Russians reverted to a military functional structure based on their stereotypical operational art . Although they recognize that Western airpower