xford: Clarendon, 1984); and Alan J. Levine, The Strategic Bombing of Germany, 1940–1945  (Westport, Conn.: Praeger, 1992).THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 78  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 107 --- Chapter 3 Molding Airpower Convictions: Development and Legacy of William Mitchell’s Strategic Thought Lt Col Mark A. Clodfelter To many of his adversaries, Brig Gen William “Billy” Mitchell  was a renegade chasing a will-o’-the-wisp; to many of his admirers, he was a brilliant theorist whose notion of an independent air force  guaranteed America ’s national security . The real Mitchell  lay somewhere in between. Intensely self-centered and supremely confident, he was consumed by his beliefs, and his zeal ultimately cost him his career. Nonetheless, his message became a beacon for American airmen who endorsed service autonomy and proclaimed that airpower  could achieve decisive results in war. More than any other individual, he was responsible for molding the airpower convictions that would serve as the doctrinal cornerstones of the United States Air Force . Perhaps Mitchell ’s most lasting contribution to the development of American airpower  was his welding the notion of air force autonomy to a progressive view of “independent” air operations, such as strategic bombing , that aimed to achieve independent results rather than simply support land or sea forces . He proclaimed that bombers  could win wars by destroying an enemy nation’s war-making capability and will to fight, and that doing so would yield a victory that was quicker and cheaper than one obtained by surface forces . The key to obtaining victory through airpower lay in establishing an autonomous air force , free of control by surface commanders  and led by airmen possessing special expertise. Those airmen determined an enemy state’s vulnerabilities and then massed bombers  against those weaknesses. For Mitchell , these ideas developed gradually, as a result of his World War I  experience and the relationships