ower. 49 At heart, this is similar to a superpower’s assured destruction  threat, except that the prospective attacker’s national survival may not be at stake; for the United States  and the Soviet Union  as well as lesser nuclear powers, nuclear deterrence  simply amounted to making war look much less attractive than the alternative. 50 This model of the adversary as a rational actor that on e can rely upon not to launch a self-destructive war is centr al to MAD , but it is often misunderstood. For assured destruction  to work as advertised, the deterred state need not be a rational, unitary actor (for no state actually is)— only that it behave approximately as if  it were rational. 51 The approximation of rationality is significant. MAD  has room for states to suffer from substantial misperceptions; to make poor decisions; and to be driven by domestic political, bureaucratic, and other factors beyond those of idealized internationalMUELLER 297  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 323 --- statecraft. As long as one can rely upon the state not to destroy itself deliberately, assured destruction  should prevent the failure of deterrence ;52 one might say that deterrence theory  assumes that states are characterized by no worse than bounded irrationality . The elegance of MAD  lies in its total lack of subtlety. For all its paradigmatic status, few concepts in international relations  have produced as much debate as has mutual assured destruction . MAD  enthusiasts, if one may call them such, emphasize the stability of such a relationship and tend to praise it with the same superficially lukewarm intensity with which Winston Churchill  lauded democracy as the worst system of its sort yet devised—except for all the alternatives. Critics of MAD  have attacked it on many grounds. 53 Some offer arguments about its strategic logic and assumptions, addressed below. Others base their opposition on moral objections to the targeting  of civilian populations 54—or on the