ead to employing strategies of the past. Since generals actually continued to discuss the campaigns of 1918, they might as well examine those of ancient Greece and Persia for all their relevance to World War II !66 He wanted massive air attacks  against the enemy’s vital centers —not peripheral pinpricks. At one point he wrote in exasperation, “We are stabbing the enemy with penknives, trying to bleed him to death, instead of wielding the axe of true air power.” 67 When the war ended, de Seversky  visited both theaters and for nearly eight months wandered the defeated countries, talked to survivors, saw scores of bombed-out cities and factories, and interviewed high-ranking military and civilian leaders. Not surprisingly, he concluded that airpower had been the decisive factor in victory by destroying the will  of the German and Japanese leadership. 68 He did not denigrate the efforts of the other services, which he deemed essential, but he nevertheless saw airpower as the instrument primarily responsible for bringing victory. This proved especially true in Japan , where the atomic  strikes eliminated the need for a bloody invasion of the home islands by giving the emperor, as he put it, “an excuse to make peace.” De Seversky  conceded, however, that Japan ’s far smaller military and industrial capacity, as well as its qualitatively inferior airpower, made the country an easier opponent. The Japanese simply did not understand airpower, a situation exacerbated by the decision to disperse their industry into small “cottage factories” throughout the cities. This practice not only curtailed production but also made area attacks almost inevitable: the Japanese thus committed “industrial hara-kiri.” 69 Surprisingly, de Seversky  was skeptical about the power and significance of the atomic bombs . Expecting to find Hiroshima and Nagasaki  “vaporized,” he instead found the burned-out rubble characteristic of German cities that had suffered extensive aerial or artillery bomb