omputing power). The advent of remotely piloted airborne vehicles  will place the same requirements on many airborne platforms. The critical element in the evaluation of this characteristic is not whether the system is airborne or spaceborne but whether the system is manned or unmanned. Unmanned systems inherently lack autonomy and critically depend on secure, high-transmission data links. Because spaceborne systems  are much more difficult to man, autonomy is  a characteristic advantage of airpower. Surveillance/Reconnaissance The idea that space assets provide omniscience/omnipresence is a common one: “24  hours-a-day, 365 days-a-year,  continuousTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 556  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 580 --- multispectral sensor data, instantly fused and synthesized into processed information” represents a typical embellishment of the real situation. 53 Computing power becomes the means to achieve this goal. But military planners  do not realize that although “24 hours-a-day, 365 days-a-year, continuous multispectral sensor data” is within reach, the ability to instantly fuse and synthesize it into processed information is a myth. Military war games  continue to overlook the very difficult problem of processing, assuming it to be a simple matter of computing power. Typically, planners  summarize the concept as a “data fusion” black box and summarily dismiss it. 54 A brief examination of the “data fusion myth ” requires familiarity with the following terms: •data - raw perception of the environment by any variety of means: sensed, encoded, and communicated. •information  - decoded and collected data by a few simple categorizing algorithms or methods. •knowledge - the recall of information as it applies to a specific situation. •understanding  - coordination of many groups of knowledge as they may apply to a variety of situations. •wisdom  - coordinated understanding in the context of a lifetime of experience. •vision - use of wisdom to construct a path