rdinate as commanding general of RFC  units in France , became chief of the Air Staff (CAS). The new arrangement proved unsatisfactory, however. By all accounts, Lord Rothermere  was a difficult and erratic personality whoMEILINGER 43  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 72 --- understood little about airpower. Neither Henderson  nor Trenchard  could work with him effectively (although no one ever accused Trenchard  of being easy to get along with). After continual and sterile strife, all three men resigned within a fortnight in April 1918. Rothermere  and Henderson  then disappeared from the military aviation scene. Sir William Weir became the new air minister, and Maj Gen Frederick Sykes the new CAS. After a somewhat unseemly display of petulance, Trenchard was returned to France  in May, only this time as commander of the newly created Independent Force  (a rather unfortunate name). 4 Sykes , a proponent of strategic airpower , pushed this organization, which contained a contingent of bomber squadrons pulled from other units in France . It was designed to carry the war to Germany  both day and night. In one sense, this move was quite a demotion for Trenchard  (he now commanded barely 10 percent of the British air units in France ), but in another sense, it forced him to concentrate on the mission of strategic bombing —an effort that would have significant, long-term consequences. Early in the war, Trenchard ’s thoughts on airpower had begun to coalesce into the form they would take so forcefully in the interwar years. In a memo of September 1916, he wrote that the aeroplane was an inherently offensive weapon: “Owing to the unlimited space in the air, the difficulty one machine has in seeing another, the accidents of wind and cloud, it is impossible for aeroplanes, however skillful and vigilant their pilots, however powerful their engines, however mobile their machines, and however numerous their formations, to prevent hostile aircraft from crossing the lin