ther of annihilation  nor attrition  but a third type of warfare. It does not seek rapid decision via destruction of enemy armed forces in battle. Likewise, it does not seek drawn-out decision via exhaustion of the enemy by continual shifting between the poles of battle and maneuver . In contrast to both, it seeks rapid decision via enemy incapacitation by fusing battle  and maneuver . It bypasses battle with enemy armed forces in favorTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 360  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 385 --- of attack upon the sustainment and control of those armed forces. Strategic paralysis  is neither pure battle nor pure maneuver but a unique melding of the two—“maneuver battle ” against war-making potential. To summarize, we note that strategic paralysis  is a military option with physical, mental, and moral dimensions that intends to disable rather than destroy the enemy. It seeks maximum possible political effect or benefit with minimum necessary military effort or cost. Further, it aims at rapid decision through a maneuver battle  directed against an adversary’s physical and mental capability to sustain and control his war effort in order to diminish his moral will to resist . With this working definition in place, the chapter now traces how the thread of strategic paralysis  became woven into the fabric of airpower thought. In the wake of World War I , two British veterans of that tragic carnage—Fuller  and Liddell Hart —weighed in on the side of strategic paralysis . Fuller , the designer of what is perhaps the first modern-day operational plan aimed at enemy paralysis  (Plan 1919), later wrote that “the physical strength of an army lies in its organization, controlled by its brain. Paralyse this brain and the body ceases to operate.”11 Fuller insisted that such “brain warfare” remained the most effective and efficient way to destroy the enemy’s military organization and hence its military strength. To economize the application of military force, one nee