haustible supply. What made the attritional war  of 1914–18 more horrifying was advancing technology —specifically the machine gun— that gave an overwhelming advantage to the defender. Defense behind prepared positions had always possessed inherent benefits, so an attacker required a preponderance of force to ensure success—usually at least a three-to-one advantage.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 8  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 37 --- The world war proved to Douhet  that new technology  required greater superiority for an attack to succeed (surely a misnomer if it meant the slaughter of thousands). Although convinced that technology  had granted the defense a permanent ascendancy in land warfare , he argued, paradoxically, that although technology  had caused the trench stalemate, technology —in the form of the airplane— would end it. Only aircraft could overcome the fundamental problem of a prolonged war of attrition caused by mass armies equipped with modern weapons. Douhet  argued that airpower was revolutionary because it operated in the third dimension, unhampered by geography. Indeed, the weapon was not so revolutionary as the medium of the air itself, which granted flexibility  and initiative. Aircraft could fly over surface forces, which then became of secondary importance. If one no longer needed to control the ground, then the forces used to control it diminished in significance. Contrary to conditions on the surface, Douhet  continued, the aerial offense was stronger than the aerial defense because the vastness of the sky made defense against the airplane virtually impossible. In Douhet ’s formulation, the speed of aircraft relative to ground forces plus the ubiquity of aircraft— the ability to be in so many places in a short period of time— equaled offensive power. Writing before the advent of radar, he argued that a defender’s inability to know the exact time and location of an attack gave an enormous advantage to the offense, virtually assuring tacti