icle/cm 3 (the “hard vacuum” of space)DEBLOIS 551  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 575 --- as Earth’s Van Allen radiation belts). These particles can pose serious threats to space systems  and  humans. Due to the amounts of electromagnetic radiation in space, unfiltered by the atmosphere, all space-faring systems  require a variety of thermal and radiation shields—but shields may not be enough. In many cases, shielding will not protect a space  vehicle from micrometeoroid impacts. The Pegasus Explorer XVI satellite  reported 62 penetrations in its seven-month space mission during 1963. Although the impacts did not seriously hamper operations, the sheer number of strikes was surprising. The extremely small size of most space meteors (10-5 grams) is offset by their incredible speeds (between 30,000 and 160,000 MPH). Coupled to this naturally occurring problem is the growing amount of man-made space debris. Over seven thousand objects larger than 10 cm and an estimated 30,000 to 70,000 smaller objects between 1 cm and 10 cm have been deposited into Earth orbit. But the real problem may be the 10 billion objects in the .1 mm to 1 cm range that we currently have no means of tracking.45 For example, a .2 mm paint-chip impact on a side window necessitated a $50,000 shuttle  window replacement following shuttle  mission STS-7. The high velocity and relative permanence of most spaceborne platforms make them extremely vulnerable to space-faring debris. In addition to thermal and radiation shields, debris shields—as well as continuous long-range monitoring and maneuver capability— reduce the risk of impact damage. Perhaps the most distinctive feature between the air and space environments is not a matter of the threat  that the space medium poses to human life, but a matter of physical operations allowed by the composition of the air realm: aerodynamics and the two fundamental forces afforded by the air medium—drag and lift. In space, there is no cushion of air (i.e