er air force must assume an ever more violent offense because defense is futile. In that battle, radar stripped away the airplane’s surprise. One would do well to remember, however, that this battle of 1940 has been the only clear-cut defensive air victory in history. 55 Today, electronic warfare — the jamming of communications and radars, and especially stealth  technology—has tilted the balance back in favor of the aircraft as an offensive weapon for countries that have invested in such technology . The Persian Gulf War  presented a situation predicted by Douhet : attacking aircraft (F-117 stealth  bombers) arrived over targets unannounced, destroyed those targets, and then departed with impunity, all because they had achieved tactical surprise. The Italian theorist also erred in foreseeing only total war, perhaps because his view was colored by a conflict that seemingly had no rational objectives. The political scientist Bernard Brodie  accused him of failing to understand that warTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 24  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 53 --- must follow policy, but this misses the mark. 56 Rather, Douhet  expected that future wars would be just as inane as the Great War . More cynic than realist, he was profoundly skeptical of human nature and rejected arguments that war could be carefully guided or finely tuned to reflect political will: “War . . . is a kind of irrepressible convulsion, during which it seems to lose or suspend every human sense; and it [humanity] appears to be invaded by a devastating and destructive fury.”57 Fortunately, he was not completely correct; World War II  was not as devoid of clear objectives as was the Great War . Moreover, limited wars like those in Korea and Vietnam  have become the norm in the second half of this century, and in many of these wars—as against the Vietcong  for example—airpower, as he envisioned it, is largely inappropriate. Douhet  denigrated limitations imposed by law and morality and continued to advo