acts nor by the experiences of the only war in which aviation was employed.” 152 Neither officer believed that historical precedent or recent experience justified the doctrine  of self-sufficient bombardment. Last, Lt Col A. H. Gilkeson , commander of the 8th Pursuit Group , could not help similarly agreeing: “This recent academic tendency to minimize, if not entirely dismiss, the consideration of the fighting force as a powerful and extremely necessary adjunct of the air force has led to the teaching of doctrines which have not been established as being true and might even be fatally dangerous to our aim in the event of armed conflict.” 153 The above examples (among many others) caution us not to remember the Air Corps Tactical School  as an omnipresent force that totally shaped the thinking of everyday airmen inFABER 223  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 250 --- the interwar years. Yes, ACTS  theory/doctrine was an important part of the Air Corps ’s four-part strategy for institutional survival and growth. In that regard, it performed its role very well. But when it comes to the popularity and acceptance of HAPDB  prior to World War II , we can only make a more modest, but equally powerful, final claim. In July 1941 President Roosevelt  tasked the armed services to write a war plan that would provide the number of men and equipment initially needed to win a future war against the Axis  powers. Although the response of General Arnold ’s newly created Air War Plans Division  staff could have been a short and pithy statistical portrait of future Air Force  needs, the division chief thought differently. He was ex–Bomber Mafia leader Lt Col Harold Lee George , and he saw in FDR ’s request an opportunity to sneak ACTS  doctrine into a major War Department  planning document via the back door. With General Arnold ’s approval, George  set about doing just that. However, because he needed a working group to start on the project immediately, George  recruited form