se belief “that success in any future war would be largely dependent upon the success of the air.” 148 Since ACTS ’s message did not necessarily enjoy universal appeal among its students, one can further ask just howTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 222  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 249 --- influential it was outside the classroom. Did the operational Air Corps  uncritically accept ACTS  bombardment doctrine , or did the airmen in the field also have their doubts? To cite a final (but again representative) example, in 1936 the GHQ Air Force ’s position seemed supportive: “The policy of this headquarters, for the ensuing training year, will be to comply with the teachings of all texts of the Air Corps Tactical School to the greatest degree possible in all operations and training.”149 The stated goal was to apply ACTS  teachings to the actual operations of GHQ Air Force  units. As a result, Col Hugh Knerr , chief of staff of the GHQ Air Force , asked operational units to study the Tactical  School’s 1937–38 Air Force  text and offer constructive criticisms. The subsequent reviews were mixed, with some showing an operator’s distrust of theory. That was certainly the case with Brig Gen G. C. Brant , commander of the 3d Wing, GHQ Air Force , who recommended the elimination of as much theory as possible. 150 Brant ’s executive officer, Lt Col George E. Lovell Jr. confessed a similar empirical bent: “I am quite uneducated in the higher art of tactics, and found this subject quite deep.” 151 Lt Col M. F. Harmon  and Maj Oliver P. Gothlin  Jr. were less hostile than General Brant , but they too argued that “a note of caution should be sounded against the too ardent adoption of peace time [ sic] theories and hypothesis [ sic] when they are not supported by actually demonstrated facts nor by the experiences of the only war in which aviation was employed.” 152 Neither officer believed that historical precedent or recent experience justified the doctrine  of self-sufficient bomb