historical legacy supporting this air doctrine  for manned flight. Suffice it to mention that one may question the value of decentralized execution  when (if  ) centrally controlled unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV)  come to dominate the air realm. Ironically, experience in the space realm may provide insights for those airpower theorists  considering centralized execution . Space provides for an ideal adaptation of centralized execution . The tactical flexibility typically provided by decentralized execution  is not an efficient option for employing centrally controlled, speed-of-light-responsive, unmanned national space assets with global reach . Space power  requires centralized execution  in order to orchestrate optimum use of assets throughout the battle space. Tactical effectiveness will rest on speed-of-light requests for support to some central buffer, priority assignment (some automated, some screened), and subsequent centralized execution . An extreme example warranting decentralized execution  might involve spaced- based-laser close air support . But even though the requirement is near instantaneous, a priority-one input by the field commander would still have to go through a central control node that would subsequently execute the command. Assigning direct control of a satellite  to the local commander would waste the potential use of the asset in other areas of the battle space at other times. Air Force space doctrine  currently under development agrees. For example, in the draft version of AFDD 4, “Space Operations Doctrine,” Gen Thomas D. White comments that “a lack of centralized authority would certainly hamper our peaceful use of space and could be disastrous in time of war. Failure to properly coordinate peaceful space activities under common direction could cause confusion. . . . In war, when time is of the essence and quick reaction so necessary, centralized military authority will surely be mandatory.” Further, with regard to unity of command , th