able to understand air war  as well as the pioneers—the chief one of whom had been at the head of the Bureau of Aeronautics  when war came: John Towers . He aspired to high operational command throughout the war but was kept from it, mostly by Admiral King  himself. Of the early aviators, only Marc Mitscher  made it to such a level as a task force commander under the Fifth Fleet . Meanwhile, Halsey  the Johnny-come-lately, Adm Chester Nimitz  the submariner, and Spruance  the cruiser sailor, had been sent by King  to implement the important decisions of the Pacific war —most of which were made by the CNO  himself. The Postwar Attitude Adjustment It is probably fair to assert that the naval officer corps emerged from World War II  with much the same worldview of international politics as it had held before 1914. Clearly, the “Wilsonian dream” had proven a mirage and many officers, if not most, were skeptical that the “one world” envisioned in the United Nations  would fare any better. The substantial skepticism toward disarmament  and arms control  of the interwar period remained.64 Methods of Conflict Resolution The line officers of the Navy  came out of the war with a strong notion that the carrier battles  and the island invasions had been decisive and that the Navy  remained the first line of defense, despite growing doubts on the latter point among Army  airmen, Congress , and the public. As a corollary, the carrier  admirals believed they would have to govern the Navy . They would never completely dominate the apex of the hierarchy, but they were well on the road to becoming the most equal among equals. 65 Not until the fighting concluded did King  and Nimitz  send Towers  to his seagoing command to take over the Fifth Fleet  from Spruance , who replaced Nimitz in command at Pearl Harbor  but soon moved on to the Naval War College . Towers  then came to Pearl Harbor  to take charge, as commander in chief of Pacific Command , the principal striking arm of the Na