strust of Western hegemony. 51 Maj Gen V. Zhurbenko , deputy head of the main department of the Soviet General Staff, said in an interview with Tass  that the Gulf War  was “without analog since World War II .”52 Mary C. FitzGerald  points out that since Soviets structured the armed forces according to their view of the nature of future war , their military doctrine  is “riveted to  future military capabilities andFELKER 499  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 523 --- environments” even in the era of “new thinking” and perestroika . Under the influence of Marshal N. V. Ogarkov  in the early 1980s, the Soviets began to focus on developing advanced conventional munitions (ACM) , directed-energy  weapons, and space-based systems. The Soviets became convinced of the inevitability of wide-scale deployment of these weapons by their opponents. Before the Gulf War , Soviet military  theorists envisioned a future war  whose political-military objectives were not driven by seizing territory but by destroying the opponent’s military capability and infrastructure. To FitzGerald , the Gulf War  represented a confirmation of how the Soviets envisioned future war . She notes three significant effects on Soviet military thought. First, the Soviets saw a new arms race  coming that emphasized implementation of strategic mobilization and deployments to theaters far from the homeland. Second, they placed new emphasis on the role of surprise  as the key to victory, with airpower as the main means of achieving it. Finally, the Soviets stressed that the Gulf War  served as the prototype of technological operations. They responded to the war as a confirmation of Marshal Ogarkov ’s ideas about technology , an invalidation of the defensive doctrine  of 1987, a redefinition of deterrence  in terms of nonnuclear parity, and a cause for serious concerns about the future of US-Soviet arms negotiations .53 Soviet concepts of future war  focused on keeping war conventional. To achieve pari