elying on hovering assumes that Russia  will have sufficient strategic warning to change prototypes and hovered technology  into weapons for employment. The timing of future war  may leave the Russians no time to turn technological potential into weapons reality. 120 It is one thing to possess the R&D  but another matter to turn that into weapons production. One cannot discuss Soviet /Russian military  doctrine apart from the political structure from which it is derived. The new doctrine  still implies that the political-social means give the military doctrine form; however, it completely ignores political means for preventing war. It never mentions crisis management or war termination. As in the Great Patriotic War , destruction of the enemy and victory become possible only when armed force carries out the will of the state. The force structure  needed to station forces forward to protect borders and the capital expenditure for high-tech weapons should cause concern to Russia  as it tries to rebuild its economy. To carry out this new military doctrine , Russia  will need to spend on the military as it did before, risking the same economic disaster. In the new Russian military lexicon, the idea of “geopolitics ” replaces that of the domination of the political-social component of military doctrine. This change amplifies the Russians’ primary focus on threats nearer to their own borders, with aggression from former Soviet statesFELKER 517  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 541 --- and forces within Russian autonomous regions taking on added importance. Perhaps even more perplexing, the new military doctrine identifies factors beyond those discussed in the former versions. The new doctrine’s  identification of rights of Russian citizens in foreign states, external political pressure, and economic pressure as an excuse for war is most troubling. 121 Speaking in February 1994, President Yeltsin  called Russia the “guarantor of stability” throughout the former S