a certain causality or predictability of actions taken in war. That is, they believe that similar inputs produce similar outputs. Translated into the language of strategy , if a given plan of attack is devised and executed in accordance with veritable principles of war, it will produce victory time and again. Believing, as they do, that one can reduce strategy to a science, Jominians tend to be more prescriptive than heuristic in their presentation of military theory . In other words, Jominian theories  tend toward teaching soldiers how to act rather than how to think. Theory should provide answers to the warrior facing the daunting prospect of battle. 65 In contrast, the Clausewitzian  tradition views the practice of war from a more nonlinear perspective. 66 Similar inputs or strategies often do not produce similar outputs or desired end states. War’s natural uncertainty makes it impossible to guarantee that what worked yesterday will work tomorrow. This unpredictability demands that any theory  of war be more heuristic than prescriptive since “no prescriptive formulation universal enough to deserve the name of law can be applied to the constant change and diversity of the phenomena of war.”67 As Clausewitz  continued, “Theory should be study not doctrine. . . . It is meant to educate the mind of the future commander, or, more accurately, to guide him in his self-education, not to accompany him to the battlefield.” 68 Thus, the Clausewitzian  school insists that the primary function of military theory  is to provide the intellectual methods by which to unveil the answers to war’s perplexing questions rather than to provide the answers themselves. It should develop a mind-set or way of thinking rather than prescribe rules of war; in the former lies the key to victory in the midst of war’s fog and friction. The Clausewitzian  school seeks to permanently arm the military commander with genius, which the Prussian himself defined as “a very highly developed mental aptit