s because “defense . . . protects our [NATO’s] means to attack Soviet follow-on forces, and attacking in depth . . . will help to keep the force ratios at the GDP [General Defensive Position] manageable.” Finally, he strenuously disputed the idea that FOFA was a new strategy. See his “Follow-on Forces Attack (FOFA): Myths and Realities,” NATO Review  32 (December 1984): 1–9 (quotes on pages 1 and 5). For an opposing view—one that claims FOFA was an “idea whose time may well have passed” because OMGs were so close to the first-echelon forces that attack against targets any deeper than, say, one hundred kilometers would be a waste of resources—see David Greenwood, “Strengthening Conventional Deterrence,” NATO Review  32 (August 1984): 8–12 (quote on page 9). 72. Preplanned requests include those passed up through the land-force chain of command; one includes them in the daily tasking after accomplishing the joint coordination and planning. Immediate requests are just that: immediate calls for air support beyond that provided in the daily allocation of air resources. See ATP-27(B), par. 602. Often confused in this regard are airborne versus ground alert missions—both are allocated airTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 480  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 504 --- resources, differing in the degree of responsiveness. Obviously, airborne assets are the most responsive. ATP-27(B), par. 410. 73. Ibid., par. 506. 74. NATO’s 1949 charter specifically forbids involvement in operations outside its members’ territories. Ironically, the United States, fearing that the alliance would become entangled in Europe’s colonial wars, insisted on the inclusion of this provision. Now, of course, the United States, with its global commitments, is seeking a change in this posture and more support from the allies. See David C. Morrison, “Beyond NATO,” National Journal,  23 February 1991, 452–54. An interesting question undergoing debate within NATO is, Precisely what is “out-of-area”? Is not Euro