hen we must face all that war entails.” 50 Such a view can easily become a self-fulfilling prophecy—preparing for the worst because it may occur can help make it occur. Ludlow-Hewitt ’s lectures on air strategy  during his tenure as commandant were quite good. For example, he too realized that air superiority  was essential, but one would have to fight for it. However, bringing the enemy to battle was difficult, because one could not fix the enemy in the sky as was the case on the ground. He therefore argued that one had to “find some way of drawing the enemy to some spot chosen by us.” The obvious method used to coax the enemy into battle entailed “threaten[ing] something vital to his security.” 51 Significantly, the Allies used this very “bait” technique in 1944 to bring the Luftwaffe  to battle by attacking German aircraft factories and oil refineries. The air commodore also went into some depth on the subject of targeting . Noting that the key areas of an enemyMEILINGER 59  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 88 --- country would vary with circumstances, Ludlow-Hewitt nonetheless identified three major target sets in a modern, industrialized country: (1) the system of commerce, industry, and distribution—including food, munitions, ore deposits, and coal supplies; (2) communications, including not only land systems but also port facilities and harbors; and (3) industrial workers. The latter were particularly important: “If their morale  can be tampered with or can be depleted—if their security can be endangered—their work will fall off in quantity and quality.” 52 Paralleling the RAF doctrine  manuals, Ludlow-Hewitt  maintained that one could more likely achieve the collapse of morale  “by crippling his industries, delaying his railways and stopping his ports than by spraying the whole population with bombs.” He quickly noted, however, that the success of the air offensive  resulted from selecting the proper targets, which in turn required a special intell