seful, but the primary means of destroying the enemy air force remained air combat . One must bring the enemy air force to battle, but this could be difficult. Unlike armies that had to fight in order to achieve their objective of defeating the enemy army or preventing it from overrunning their country, air forces could avoid battle yet still bomb a country’s vital centers . Thus, one need not choose between air superiority  and bombardment—one could wage both campaigns simultaneously. This ability to conduct parallel —not merely sequential— combat operations was one of the factors that differentiated airpower from surface forces . Even so, Slessor  remained ambivalent about the air superiority  campaign, arguing on the one hand that it was necessary but on the other that one should not see it as an end in itself. A line, fine though it might be, clearly existed between aggressively waging the battle for air superiority  while also avoiding its distractions in order to conduct a more lucrative bombing Slessor  posited a war in which the British army  had deployed to the Continent to secure the low countries from a hostile power. The initial stages of that joint campaign were therefore symbiotic: the army  and navy  secured a foothold and established air bases, and the air force then protected the surface forces  from enemy attack. That done, one could carry out a strategic air campaign  against the enemy’s vital centers .63 Unfortunately, Slessor  declined to discuss the details of such an air campaign . Instead, he concentrated on the preliminary joint campaign , largely because he believed that airpower would not stop a major land assault by itself and that hitting strategic targets  would not take effect quicklyMEILINGER 63  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 92 --- enough to prevent the British army  from being overwhelmed. Therefore, air, land, and sea commanders had to cooperate to stop and perhaps drive back an enemy offensive. Nonetheless, Slessor ’s