acterize German interwar airpower theory  as comprehensive, practical, and well adapted to German strategy and technology . The greatest failings in translating airpower theory  into doctrine  for an effective air force  came from a senior leadership imposed by the Nazi system. The loss of General Wever  in 1936 was a blow from which the Luftwaffe  never fully recovered. Wever  had enough prestige within the armed forces to successfully challenge the ideas of Hermann Göring  and Udet . With the loss of Wever , however, subsequent commanders of the Luftwaffe , although knowledgeable men, did not possess the authority required to prevent mistakes such as the appointment of Udet  to the Office of Technical Development . The tenure of Hans Jeschonneck , an intelligent but flawed young officer appointed as Luftwaffe  chief of staff in 1939, proved disastrous for German air theory  and doctrine  as the war progressed. Infatuated with the concepts of dive-bombing , Jeschonneck ignored other vital missions of the air force  and gave only minimal priority to important programs such as the buildup of transport aviation  and the strategic bomber  program. 93 Conclusion During the interwar period, each major Continental air power experienced a debate between two basic airpowerCORUM 175  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 203 --- theories : (1) that the primary role of air forces envisioned an independent force  carrying out a strategic air campaign against the enemy homeland and (2) that the primary role of airpower envisioned a support arm for land and naval forces. The combination of air/land/naval forces would create a new synergy on the battlefield. For the most part, advocates of aviation  in the support role won this debate, although the German position on airpower fell halfway between the two positions. Generally, the most important participants in the debate were within the armed forces. Douhet ’s influence waned quickly after he left the Air Ministry  in the ea