d victories in highly visible national air races. (Much to the annoyance of the Navy , Doolittle  won the 1925 Schneider Cup, a race reserved exclusively for seaplanes !)24 However, media-savvy visionaries such as Hap Arnold , who headed the Air Service Information Office  in 1925–26, and Ira Eaker , who coauthored three books with Arnold , systematized the spread of “aeromania” in general—and public support forTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 188  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 215 --- the Air Corps  in particular. As the acknowledged masters of public relations in the interwar Air Corps , both men spread air-mindedness  with an endless stream of press releases, interviews, attention-getting flights, newsreel and radio coverage of special events, and the ability to intertwine the glamour of Hollywood with the thrill of flying. 25 Arnold  and Eaker  also concentrated on spreading aeromania to the young, who they believed were “keenly alive to the wonderful future possibilities of aerial navigation.”26 From 1926 to 1928, for example, Major Arnold  wrote a six-volume adventure series for the A. L. Burt Company, a publisher whose tales provided “good, healthy action that every boy loves.” (Other series printed by Burt included Clair W. Hayes’s The Boy Allies with the Army,  Ensign Robert Drake’s The Boy Allies with the Navy,  and Milton Richards’s Boys of the Royal Mounted Police .) Arnold ’s popular tales featured a heroic (yet modest) young aviator named Bill Bruce, whom the airman named after one of his sons. 27 By providing an unvarnished yet inspiring collection of stories about a likable pilot’s adventures in the Air Service , Arnold accomplished several goals. He created “a favorable and sympathetic view of Air Service personnel”; he quietly argued for an expanded and improved air arm; and he dramatized “values, attitudes, and behaviors” that arguably defined, along with the Ted Scott  series and dozens of other aviation-related examples, the “national character”