erms of ends, Warden  accepts Clausewitz ’s maxim that all wars are fought for political purpose. Although wars may have their own distinct capabilities and limitations relative to other tools available to the statesman, they are by nature political instruments. 50 Seen as such, wars are essentially discourses between policy makers  on each side. The aim of all military action, then, is not the destruction of enemy armed forces but the manipulation of the enemy leadership’s will . Warden  elaborates: Wars are fought to convince the enemy leadership to do what one wants it to do—that is, concede something political. . . . The enemy leadership agrees that it needs to make these political concessions when it suffers the threat or the actuality of intolerable pressure against both its operational and strategic centers of gravity . . . .THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 374  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 399 --- Thus, one does not conduct an attack against industry or infrastructure because of the effect it might or might not have on fielded forces. Rather, one undertakes such an attack for its direct effect on national leaders and commanders. 51 Warden  proposes three main ways to make the enemy do what one wants him to do—the military strategies  of imposed cost (coercion), paralysis  (incapacitation), and destruction (annihilation ).52 Collectively, these strategies represent a continuum of force application. The point chosen along that strategy continuum should coincide with the level of objective intent. An imposed cost strategy  seeks to make continued resistance too expensive for the enemy command. It attempts to do so by estimating the opponent’s pain threshold, based on his value system, and then exceeding this threshold as violently and instantaneously as possible through simultaneous or parallel attacks  upon the designated target set. Theoretically, such attacks coerce the enemy leadership to accept one’s terms and change its policy through the actual impositi