n , commander of the CAC , Starry  announced his decision to refer to the Army ’s approach to warfare as AirLand Battle .59 Two aspects of this decision are noteworthy. First, although the doctrine  espoused in the 1976 edition of FM 100-5 came to be known as Active Defense, it was a derived name—not a given one. In contrast, Starry  deliberately hung a label on his emerging doctrine. Second, although he may have partially intended the “Air” part of AirLand Battle  to make Army  officers more air-minded, one may conclude that he also intended to signal the Air Force  that the Army  envisioned a strong partnership between the two services on any future battlefield. 60 The 1982 edition of FM 100-5 reflected both Starry ’s guidance and the input of a number of midgrade officers who had found the previous edition badly wanting. 61 The new manual addressed virtually all of the concerns raised by the latter. Although it acknowledged the importance of “armaments sufficient for the task at hand,” the manual stated categorically that “first and foremost, [combat power] depends on good people—soldiers with character and resolve who will win because they simply will not accept losing.” 62 This statement marked a return to the Army ’s traditional view of war as a struggle waged between people who use weapons, consciously rejecting DePuy ’s notion of war as a contest of machines operated by people. Analysis of the defense stated that it “consisted of reactive and offensive elements working together to rob the enemy of the initiative”; approvingly cited Carl von Clausewitz ’s description of the defense as a “shield of [well-directed] blows”; and explicitly warned against the Active Defense ’s techniqueTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 416  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 441 --- of laterally shifting committed forces. 63 Gone was the single focus on the first battle. Instead, the manual introduced the concept of an operational level of war that involved the planning and conduct of c