American Principles and of the Law,” February 1926, Record Group 4, NWC History Collection. The staff presentations at the Naval War College increasingly included allusions to the possibility of air attack against enemy industry or civilian morale—or the possibility of such attacks on the United States—asMETS 141  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 170 --- independent air missions, but the emphasis was on airpower as an integral element of naval power. See “The Employment of Aviation in Naval Warfare,” staff presentation, Naval War College, September 1937, Record Group 4, NWC History Collection; and “The Employment of Aviation in Naval Warfare,” staff presentation, Naval War College, September 1940, Record Group 4, NWC History Collection. One suspects that the contemporary experience with airpower in the Spanish Civil War and Ethiopia provided the stimulus for those remarks. 25. Jeffrey G. Barlow, The Revolt of the Admirals  (Washington, D.C.: Center for Naval History, 1994), 3; see also US Navy General Board, “GB Proceedings 80,” reel 13, M1493, 1919, National Archives, wherein we clearly see the impossibility of determining how much of the enthusiasm of the General Board for aviation arises from progressive analysis and how much from Mitchell’s efforts, even at this early date. For the formal report of the board, see Adm Charles J. Badger, USN, senior member present, General Board of the Navy, to the secretary of the Navy, report, “Future Policy Governing Development of Air Service for the United States Navy,” 23 June 1919, General Board no. 449, Mustin Papers, box 7, Library of Congress. 26. In 1909 Sims himself argued that hitting a moving ship from a considerable height was an impractical proposition; in 1921 he reversed himself to argue that bombing from a considerable height could result in devastating hits on moving ships and that “this [the lethal area about a target vessel] could not easily be missed by a well-trained pilot.” William Sims to “Turne