Rear Adm Nathan C. Twining , wrote to Capt Henry Mustin  in 1919, stating tentatively that he felt airpower should be kept in the ArmyTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 124  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 153 --- and Navy . He saw some possibilities in distant air raiding but thought that should be part of the mission of the land army. He argued, however, that the most urgent task of all was developing aviation’s capabilities in spotting  and scouting. 39 Six years later, Capt George Westervelt , then manager of the Naval Aircraft Factory  in Philadelphia (though not an aviator himself), expressed a similar idea with no sugar coating or hedging: They [the aviators] are in the Navy , of the Navy, and wish to remain there. They firmly believe that the air arm is an inherent portion of the Navy ; that, as a Naval air arm, it is helpless without the Navy , and that the Navy  would be helpless without it. In imagination many of them, doubtless, project themselves into the future and see the time when the air  arm of the Navy  will be its paramount arm, and when the surface ships will get their orders from the Commander-in-Chief flying above them, but they still see these combined elements of their country’s power as the Navy , and themselves as officers of the Navy .40 Westervelt  had visited Britain  during World War I , and, undoubtedly, the Royal Navy  was an influence on him and the entire US Navy —as it always had been. The story about the influence of the Royal Air Force (RAF)  on US Army  aviators is well known. Mitchell ’s visits with Hugh Trenchard  during World War I  are well documented. 41 Perhaps less well known is the negative impact of the RAF  on the US Navy . The British integrated their naval and land-based airpower into a separate air force in 1918 and kept it so organized up to 1937. From 1918 forward, it was an article of faith in the US Navy  that that decision had been a mistake and proof that an independent air force  would be bad for the United Stat