ee, among a host of others, Leonard Beaton and John Maddox, The Spread of Nuclear Weapons  (New York: Praeger, 1962); Stephen M. Meyer, The Dynamics of Nuclear Proliferation  (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1984); Rodney W. Jones, ed., Small Nuclear Forces and U.S. Security Policy (Lexington, Mass.: D. C. Heath, 1984); Leonard S. Spector with Jacqueline R. Smith, Nuclear Ambitions  (Boulder, Colo.: Westview, 1990); Benjamin Frankel, ed., Opaque Nuclear Proliferation,  special issue of Journal of Strategic Studies 13 (September 1990); Zachary S. Davis and Benjamin Frankel, eds., The Proliferation Puzzle  (London: Frank Cass, 1993); and Mitchell Reiss and Robert S. Litwak, eds., Nuclear Proliferation after the Cold War  (Washington, D.C.: Woodrow Wilson Center Press, 1994). 58. Even a state entirely immune from military retaliation could expect under most circumstances to suffer nontrivial political and environmental costs as a result of launching a major nuclear attack. 59. Inevitably, threats to go to nuclear war over interests less than vital to a state will have reduced credibility, as dramatized in the alliterative question of whether the United States would really trade Boston for Bonn or Pittsburgh for Paris. For discussion of the subject of extended (sometimes called “type 2”) nuclear deterrence, see, among many others, Schelling, Arms and Influence;  Brodie, Escalation and the Nuclear Option; Snyder; Alexander L. George and Richard Smoke, Deterrence in American Foreign Policy  (New York: Columbia University Press, 1974); John J. Mearsheimer, “Nuclear Weapons and Deterrence in Europe,” International Security  9 (Winter 1984–1985): 19–46; and Paul K. Huth, Extended Deterrence and the Prevention of War  (New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1988). 60. Conversely, coercive threats to use nuclear weapons for purposes other than deterrence (what Thomas Schelling labeled “compellence”) have substantial credibility problems of their own and have caused muc