d balloons had any utility. His rhetorical answer—“What is the use of a new born babe? It may become a man”— foreshadowed the thinking of Army  aviators in the 1920s and 1930s. 34 Yes, their immediate goal was to protect the infant Air Service  from the negative effects of rapid demobilization and from the possible treachery of the War Department ’s “old guard.” However, senior air leaders like Brig Gen Billy Mitchell , who served as assistant chief of the Air Service  from 1919 to 1921, and Maj Gen Mason Patrick , who functioned as chief of the Air Service /Air Corps  from 1921 to 1927, knew that merely promoting aeromania was not enough.35 If Army aviation  were to survive and  become a mature, independent way of war, it needed to create new roles and missions for itself or seize existing responsibilities from the Army  or Navy . Almost from the beginning, it did both. Like their postwar counterparts in the Royal Air Force , US airmen concluded that they needed to demonstrate quickly the versatility of airpower or perhaps see it ruthlessly starved of institutional and financial support. As a result, the Air Service  and Air Corps  of the 1920s willingly performed a variety of peacetime roles. In California, for example, Army airmen became airborne forest rangers who detected and reported approximately four thousand forest fires from 1919 to 1923. In Oregon, the total acreage destroyed by fire decreased 62 percent during the first three years of the Army program there. (This total far exceeded the 27 percent decrease that occurred in California.) 36 At roughly the same time, the Air Service  sought additional roles and missions. It patrolled the entire Mexican border to discourage cattle smugglers, bandits, and illegal border crossings; it conducted crop-dusting experiments (with calcium arsenate) to protect cotton and fruit crops from pests; it dabbled in the aerial seeding of farmland; and it highlighted the success of Navy aviation  in mapping the Mississippi De