and in denying them to potential enemies. As a result, enemy states or coalitions could place air bases and carrier-based aviation  close enough to America ’s borders to destroy the great industrial triangle  in an M-day attack and thus indirectly wipe out the American people’s will to resist . Long-range and land-based  airpower , however, offered a specific solution to sea-based air attacks  and invasions, asFABER 197  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 224 --- Hap Arnold  argued in Airmen and Aircraft  (1926), as Mason Patrick  confirmed in The United States in the Air (1928), and as Millard F. Harmon  reiterated while at ACTS  in the late 1930s. (Harmon , however, could not decide if the long-range bomber  would “assume parity with the Army  and Navy  . . . or absorb them one or both.”) 62 Ultimately, from the biased perspective of Air Corps  leaders and ACTS  strategists, they had defined a new American center of gravity  and abraded the public’s (and government’s) faith in the Navy  to safeguard the nation from long-range attack. The only step left was for the Air Corps  to cap its intrusion into Navy  prerogatives by incrementally defining (and assuming) a role in continental and then hemispheric defense. The Air Corps  laid claim to what had been an exclusive Navy  responsibility by systematically redefining and extending the role of “defensive” air operations —from the waterline of the United States  to hemispheric defense and eventually to the vital economic centers  of enemy states, even if they were thousands of miles away. The intrusion process, however, was full of fits and starts. It received a major push in 1925, when the Air Service Tactical School  proposed revisions to the War Department ’s General Order (GO) 20, which determined Joint Board  policy on the relationship between Army  and Navy aircraft. The ASTS  commandant, Maj Oscar Westover , protested innocently that the intent of the school was not to preach or even suggest who should h