er_evolution.pdf --- Page 26 --- with the loss of ally/buffer states in Eastern Europe, but the privileged position and economic priority of the military within the state ended as well. The greatest external shock, however, occurred in 1990–91, when the Russians saw the astounding ability of the West to project power on a global basis and then employ that power in an overwhelmingly decisive way. Russian military leaders were mesmerized by the effectiveness of airpower in the Gulf War. The combination of mobility, accuracy, stealth, rapid communications, intelligence gathering and dissemination, target analysis, C 2 channels, and simple professionalism had a profound impact on Russian military leaders. In their view, airpower had become the dominant factor in modern war. The challenge, however, is not only for Russia to modernize its military forces on the Western model within the constraints of its faltering economy, but more importantly, within the parameters of an increasingly volatile political situation. Reconciling military reality with political ideology will be extremely difficult. One should note that, until recently, most airpower theorists around the world tended to equate strategic bombing with strategic airpower. Consequently, differences between theorists have generally focused on which set of targets is most appropriate to achieve a given strategic objective. Although the Berlin airlift of 1948–49 demonstrated that one can wield strategic airpower without firing a shot, most airmen have focused on the “fire and steel” side of operations. Over the past decade, this has changed—due partly to a dramatic lowering in tensions between the superpowers, partly to increased capabilities that allow the employment of air and space assets in varied and discrete ways, and partly to heightened sensitivities over the use of force, emphasizing less loss of life and less collateral damage. This more peaceful use of strategic airpower has become a much debated and explo