ship to involve the Marine Corps  and the Navy . Further, they laid outWINTON 419  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 444 --- procedures for joint SEAD , joint attack of the second echelon, joint air-attack team operations (employment of A-10s  and attack helicopters ), and joint application of firepower. 75 These manuals represented a great deal of trial and error on the part of Army  and Air Force  officers working hard to figure out what would probably work best. Their very existence and the signatures of the multiple commanders who promulgated them constitute vivid evidence of how strong the Army –Air Force  partnership had become by the mid-1980s. A formal understanding at the departmental level “for enhancement of joint employment of the AirLand Battle Doctrine ”76 also strengthened the partnership. This April 1983 document, signed by General Meyer  and Gen Charles A. Gabriel , Air Force  chief of staff, committed the two services to use the 1982 edition of FM 100-5 as the basis for seeking increased integration of Army  and Air Force  tactical forces, enhancing interservice planning and programming, continuing the dialogue on doctrinal matters, working together on deep-attack systems, coordinating airlift  requirements, and resolving issues concerning the integration of AirLand Battle  into theater operations. A memorandum of understanding signed by Gabriel and Gen John A. Wickham , the new Army  chief of staff and Gabriel ’s West Point  classmate, followed it in November 1983. This paper emphasized the planning and programmatic aspects of the previous memo and pledged the services to “initiate herewith a joint process to develop in a deliberate manner the most combat effective, affordable joint forces  necessary for airland combat operations.” 77 Apparently fearful of resistance from within their own services over “too much cooperation,” Gabriel  and Wickham instructed their operations deputies, Lt Gen John T. Chain and Lt Gen Fred K. Mahaffey , to e