e total. Distinctions between soldiers and civilians no longer existed— all people were part of the war effort. To de Seversky , this meant that all citizens might pay the ultimate price in war and thus should have a voice in determining how those wars were fought. In a dictatorship, rulers make war with little regard for the will of the populace—but not in a democracy. War strategy  had become far too important to be left to military leaders. The people must have knowledge of the innerTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 248  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 275 --- workings of war so they can have a voice in its conduct: “over-all strategy , like any other national policy  that affects the entire nation, is the province of the people.” 31 Air war especially was too new and too powerful, and affected people too directly for them to be ignorant of its principles. An educated public would make its opinions known to the politicians, who in turn would determine military policy . De Seversky  saw educating the people as his duty : “I am convinced that the best contribution I can make to America  is to draw attention to what seems to me the need for an effective program of national defense  in the air in order to provide genuine security for our country.” 32 Over the next decade, the major would write two books and scores of articles and press releases, and would give hundreds of radio addresses. His first literary task upon leaving business in 1939 involved telling of aeronautical conditions in Europe . He visited Britain , France , Germany , and Italy  and because of his international reputation, was able to talk with leading airmen and aircraft manufacturers and tour their factories. He returned to America  both sobered and heartened. On the one hand, he was convinced that Hitler  was bent on war, even predicting that it would break out in September 1939. 33 He did not think the French were ready for such a war; although their air force had some useful aircraft designs, poli