de of the equation to zero. Morale, I know almost nothing about.” 61 Practically, however, driving the physical side to zero (i.e., annihilating the enemy system) is, to borrow Warden ’s own words cited earlier, “rare in history, difficult to execute, fraught with moral concerns, and normally not very useful because of all the unintended consequences it engenders.” 62 Consequently, one must still consider the issue of moral strength. Third, Warden ’s theory deals with unilateral action taken against an unresponsive enemy and thus disregards action-reaction cycles and their attendant frictions that mark the actual conduct of war. Again, Warden  feels justified in doing so because he claims that the parallel hyperwars  of the twenty-first century will eliminate the possibility of enemy reaction at the strategic and operational levels. In fact, Warden  goes so far as to proclaim that the revolution in warfare ushered in by Desert Storm  has made most Clausewitzian  notions irrelevant: “The whole business of action and reaction, culminating points, friction, et cetera,THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 378  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 403 --- was a function of serial war and the imprecision of weapons. . . . [These nineteenth century concepts are] an accurate description of the way things were, but not a description of how they ought to be or can be.” 63 Although theoretically possible, one has difficulty imagining real war that is reactionless and friction free, even if conducted in parallel fashion at hyperspeed. If human nature rather than technology  is indeed the controlling element in war, then war will remain an unpredictable, nonlinear phenomenon, even in the presence of technological revolution. The previous sections revealed notable overlap between the theories of John Boyd  and John Warden . Both men contend that the target for all military action should be the enemy command and that the most effective and efficient mechanism for translating military expendit