t open the more important question of winning the last battle. Additionally, the doctrine ’s focus at division level and below omitted the important contribution made by the corps, particularly in disrupting Soviet second-echelon forces. Last, almost as insult added to injury, the manual contained no consideration of the “principles of war.” Although outside analysts, in part, prompted and abetted this debate, it largely remained an internal affair. 52 Army  officers read DePuy ’s manual closely, and the more they read it, the less they liked it. 53 This dissatisfaction in the ranks corresponded to two developments at the top. On 1 July 1977, Gen Donn A. Starry replaced General DePuy  as TRADOC  commander; and in June 1979, Lt Gen Edward C. Meyer , Army  deputy chief of staff for operations and chief of staff designate, suggested to Starry that the Army  should begin work on a new FM 100-5. 54 Starry was already so inclined. 55 Although as commander of the Armor Center  and as a DePuy  protégé, he had served as one of the key participants in developing the 1976 edition of FM 100-5, his perspective began to change when he took command of V Corps  in Europe .56 Here, he realized the vitalWINTON 415  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 440 --- importance of engaging Soviet second-echelon forces and not simply blunting the initial attack. 57 When Starry  assumed command of TRADOC , he began thinking and talking about the extended battlefield , a term that entered the TRADOC lexicon in the form of an emerging concept briefed to and approved by General Meyer  in October 1980.58 Several months later, after continuing to cast around for a term that would adequately convey the sense of the doctrinal shift he envisioned and after consulting with Lt Gen William R. Richardson , commander of the CAC , Starry  announced his decision to refer to the Army ’s approach to warfare as AirLand Battle .59 Two aspects of this decision are noteworthy. First, although the doctrine  e