group organized by the MAS Air Board. It includes members from each country, except Luxembourg and Iceland, as well as every NATO regional command. 62. Stein, 27. 63. ATP-27(B), par. 106. 64. This paragraph and the following one are based upon Stein, 26–35. One should note that the BAI/AI discussion extended beyond an RAF-USAF disagreement. The US Army and its AirLand Battle doctrine also played an important role in the emergence of BAI as a separate category of air-to-surface airpower employment. See Robert Frank Futrell, Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine: Basic Thinking in the United States Air Force, vol. 2, 1961–1984 (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, December 1989), 546–55. 65. NORTHAG covered the relatively flat, open spaces of the North German plain and was defended by 17 divisions from five countries (Denmark, Holland, United Kingdom, Belgium, and West Germany) whose land forces generally had less firepower than US forces further south (who also had more favorable defensive terrain). This situation was exacerbated by NATO’s forward defense posture, which required these forces to be spread thin along the inter-German border (IGB), and the Warsaw Pact’s blitzkrieg strategy, which sought a breakthrough along a narrow front followed by exploitation into NATO’s vital rear areas. This attack would destroy logistics networks, envelope NATO forces, and defeat them in detail. See Kugler, 433–37. 66. Of particular concern were Warsaw Pact (mainly Soviet) operational maneuver groups (OMG), which were highly mobile, second-echelon forces designed to exploit any breakthrough by first-echelon Warsaw Pact forces and then wreak havoc in NATO rear areas—particularly nuclear systemsMCCRABB 479  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 503 --- (storage and launch facilities), command centers, airfields, and logistics dumps. 67. Critical technologies required for AirLand Battle included (1) intelligence technologies that could detect and identify Warsaw Pact echelons and relay