for a generation of American airmen when he observed that air power is not a new weapon of warfare. It cannot be likened to the rifle, the machine gun, or the cannon. . . . It is a means by which pressure, through the medium of destruction, may be applied against vital installations on the surface of the land or the sea, without regard to the existence of defenses which are tied down to those terrestrial installations. . . . Air power is not a new weapon—it constitutes a new force, as separate from land power  and sea power  as each is separate from the other. It has created a trimorph or trinity of national defense which now consists of land power , sea power , and air power. 3 The air option, in short, offered a unique alternative to the carnage and futility of attrition warfare , as epitomized by the “great sausage machine” of World War I . For the first time in history, hundreds if not thousands of invincible, long-range bombers  would effortlessly leap over an opponent’s intervening ground defenses  and terrorize civilians into overthrowing their own governments, as Giulio Douhet 183  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 210 --- suggested, or deprive an enemy army the material capacity to wage war, as advocated by Gianni Caproni  and Nino Salvaneschi .4 In either case, the bomber  was an apocalyptic instrument of war qualitatively different from any weapon that had come before. It could rapidly destroy an entire nation from the inside out rather than slowly defeat it from the outside in. In contrast to the boosterism of interwar airmen, Army  and Navy  traditionalists did not believe that the modern bomber was a revolutionary, war-winning weapon. Its technology , they argued, was too primitive to match the promises made on its behalf. Further, bombers  could not unilaterally defeat an enemy nation without the active cooperation of ground  and naval forces ; nor could they defeat an opponent quickly (i.e., humanely), as also promised. As a result, Army  an