z still advocated attacks upon the COGs themselves, overlooking the possibility of targeting the vulnerable linkages between COGs. These linkages and interactions are addressed by Boyd, Warden, and, most recently, Maj Jason Barlow through his creative concept of national elements of value (NEV). For more on NEVs, see Barlow. 42. Warden, The Air Campaign,  149. 43. This assertion contains two presumptions: (1) an enemy’s COGs are material in nature and (2) an enemy possesses COGs that are vulnerable to attack. Regarding the first presumption, certain nonmaterial COGs may actually be more vulnerable to attack by surface forces than by air forces. For example, if popular support is the strategic COG for a guerrilla insurgency, then surface forces may have the advantage over air forces due to their ability to occupy territory and, if necessary, separate the population from the insurgents. In terms of the second presumption, an enemy may have no vulnerable COGs at all due to the inherent redundancy and/or resiliency of his system. 44. Warden defines a strategic entity as “any organization that can operate autonomously; that is, it is self-directing and self-sustaining.” As he goes on to explain, this definition implies that his theory of strategic attack against the enemy as a system is “as applicable to a guerrilla organization as to a modern industrial state.” See Col John A. Warden III, “The Enemy as a System,” Airpower Journal  9, no. 1 (Spring 1995): 55, note 1. Although one can certainly argue with Warden’s contention that his theory applies to all forms of warfare, one cannot insist (as many do) that he assumes the enemy is a modernized nation-state. He does presume that one can analyzeFADOK 393  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 418 --- the enemy, whether a nation-state or a guerrilla organization, as a system of five strategic rings with leadership at the center. 45. Warden uses a biological analogy to draw parallels with the human body. The brain, rece