time to cope mentally with the rapidly unfolding—and naturally uncertain—circumstances of war.22 One’s military operations aim to (1) create and perpetuate a highly fluid and menacing state of affairs for the enemy and (2) disrupt or incapacitate his ability to adapt to such an environment. Based upon an analysis of ancient and modern military history, Boyd  identifies four key qualities of successful operations— initiative, harmony, variety, and rapidity.23 Collectively, these characteristics allow one to adapt to and to shape the uncertain, friction-filled environment of war. Boyd  credits Clausewitz  for recognizing the need to improve one’s adaptability in war by minimizing one’s own frictions. In addition, borrowing from Sun-tzu , Boyd  insists that one can use friction to shape the conflict in one’s favor by creating and exploiting the frictions faced by the opponent. He then relates this idea of minimizing friendly friction and maximizing enemy friction to his key qualities of initiative, harmony, variety, and rapidity. To minimize friendly friction, one must act and react more quickly than the opponent—specifically, by exercisingTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 364  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 389 --- initiative at the lower levels within a chain of command. However, a centralized command of what and why things are done must guide this decentralized control of how things are done. This shared vision of a single commander’s intent ensures strategic and operational harmony among the various tactical actions and reactions. Without a common aim and similar outlook on how best to satisfy the commander’s intent, subordinate freedom of action risks disunity of effort and an attendant increase in friction. 24 To maximize enemy friction, one should plan to attack with a variety  of actions that one can execute with the greatest possible rapidity . Similar to the contemporary notion of parallel warfare , this lethal combination of varied, rapid actions serves to ove