as that an army must use all available means to work as a single unit towards a single objective in war—victory. In particular, there was only one US Army , and airpower was an indispensable part of that indissoluble whole.104 Yes, the Air Service /Air Corps  had limited autonomy, the indispensabilists admitted, but that was onlyTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 206  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 233 --- right. The air arm was not a war-winning weapon in itself; it was unable to occupy territory; it was dependent on fixed bases; and it was unable to conduct continuous and sustained operations. As a result, it had to be in “full sympathy” with the Army ’s other arms and subsume itself to the Army ’s creed. 105 At the center of that creed was the infantry, which remained the “queen of the battlefield.” Because there was no room for accommodation between Army  separatists and indispensabilists, the complaints of airpower zealots could go only so far. As propagandists, they could—through mind-numbing repetition—create a climate for change, but they could not engineer change itself. Thus, to create a corporate (and independent) identity for themselves, aviators like Benny Foulois , Hap Arnold , Oscar Westover , Frank Andrews , and Robert Olds  not only protested loudly but also turned Congress  and the War Department  into roles and missions  battlegrounds. In other words, they resorted to legislation or formal boards of inquiry to realize their separatist vision. Billy Mitchell  spoke for like-minded airmen when he observed in 1925, “Let the groundman run the ground, let the waterman run the water, and let the airman run the air.”106 Mitchell  and his sympathizers first hoped to turn this pithy maxim into reality via legislative means. At a minimum, they were going to prevent Army  and Navy  traditionalists from choking off the Air Service , bulldozing it, or holding it down “like a stepchild.” In Mitchell ’s words, “To leave aeronautics as an orphan [was to] strangle it