rrent Air Force doctrine  strongly indicates acceptance of this conjecture. Specifically, Air Force Manual (AFM) 1-1,  Basic Aerospace Doctrine of the United States Air Force, states that “the aerospace environment can be most fully exploited when considered as an indivisible whole. Although there are physical differences between the atmosphere and space, there is no absolute boundary  between them. The same basic military activities can be performed in each, albeit with different platforms and methods.” 2 Air Force SpaceTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 530  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 554 --- Command ’s practice of distinguishing between the two media, however, apparently has had some impact on Air Force doctrine. Air Force Doctrine Document (AFDD) 1, “Basic Air Force Doctrine,” the yet-to-be-published replacement for AFM 1-1, recognizes some distinction between air and space forces, although the latest version of that doctrine still reflects the “aerospace power” mentality: “The distinguishing qualities of aerospace power are flight and the ability to rise above the earth’s surface and operate in three dimensions through and above the atmosphere.” 3 This essay does not accept the aerospace power conjecture at face value but examines its plausibility by evaluating both airpower and space power against a backdrop of the roles, missions, and characteristics of each. The examination of roles and missions  is relatively short because roles and missions  have typically not served as the primary justification for establishing separate theories for the application of military power 4 (vested, in turn, in separate services). Differences in land power , sea power , and airpower stem from distinctions in characteristics—that is, the different means by which one prosecutes the roles and missions . Corres pond- ingly, the Army , Navy , and Air Force  organize, train, and equip the joint war-fighting command. If an examination of the characteristics of airpower and space powe