Air (1921) into French. 8 Douhet ’s stature as a military theorist provided French airmen with a legitimate means of mobilizing popular and political support for the creation of an independent air force .9 Part of the independence campaign of French airmen was realized in 1928 with the establishment of the Air Ministry , which for the first time assured airmen and their views of limited access to the top defense councils. Although the air service reported to the Air Ministry  in peacetime, in wartime it remained subordinate to the army . Only in 1933 did the air force  officially become a separate branch of the military. The service found its independence still limited, however, because the High Command of the armed forces set objectives and provided strategic direction for all the armed forces—and the army  dominated the High Command. In the interwar period, only three generals—Philippe Petain , Maxime Weygand , and Maurice-Gustave Gamelin —held the Supreme Command. All were army  officers, and none had more than a minimal understanding of airpower. Army  and air force  understandingCORUM 153  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 181 --- of doctrine grew increasingly divergent in this period. By the early 1930s, Douhet ’s tenets had become the predominant view among air force  officers. At the same time, French army commanders continued to hold the view that the air force merely supported the infantry. 10 French airmen enhanced service independence by putting some of Douhet ’s theories into practice. In the early 1930s, the Air Ministry  began the production of several aircraft models that fit Douhet ’s conception of the battle plane : well-armed, heavy aircraft that could carry out a variety of roles but whose primary mission remained bombing . Bombing, combat, and reconnaissance (BCR) aircraft  would carry out reconnaissance  and ground attack  for the army  yet could carry out strategic bombing  attacks as well. Indeed, some French air force  officers open