popular war, an inequitable draft system, a progressive unraveling of small-unit discipline, and a severe questioning of the competence and integrity of its senior leaders. Although some voices placed the onus for the Vietnam  debacle on misguided policy and faulty military strategy  directed from the E ring of the Pentagon , others realized that if the Army  were to provide effectively for the common defense, it must reform itself both morally and intellectually. The intellectual component of that transformation would center first in doctrine . The Air Force  experience in Vietnam  was not as searing as the Army ’s, but it did possess some doctrinal implications. First, the evidence on AI  remained mixed. Although it had not appreciably altered support to guerrilla warfare , it had substantially disrupted the logistical flow to conventionalTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 402  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 427 --- offensive operations. Second, seven long years of operating under a badly fragmented command system significantly reinforced the Air Force ’s institutional preference for a single air commander  in each theater of operations, working under the direct purview of the theater commander. More ambivalent were the implications of the Vietnam  experience for the theory of strategic attack  in negating an opponent’s military capability and undermining his political will. On the one hand, many Air Force  analysts insisted that Linebacker 2 demonstrated what airpower could do when politicians took the gloves off. 3 More thoughtful analysts, however, pointed out that no panacea target set  neutralized the military capability of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam (DRVN)  and that President Richard Nixon  purchased the political objective of disengaging America  from Vietnam  with the carrot of concessions as much as he imposed it with the stick of airpower. 4 In sum, Vietnam  provided rather uncertain grist for the Air Force  doctrinal mill. Before examining the deve