y, an enemy would have to attack each silo separately and would need to use only fairly accurate weapons against them. Thus, SLBMs  would not prove useful for attacking ICBMs . Further, if two states had similar numbers of single-warhead ICBMs  (assuming they were less than 100 percent effective) and if one attacked the other’s missiles, the attacker’s entire arsenal would not destroy all of the defender’s ICBMs , leaving the attacker disarmed and the defender able to retaliate with its surviving weapons. SLBMs , effectively immune from preemptive attack  except when their submarines  were in port, reinforced this pattern. 22 ICBM  survivability came under much greater threat as ICBM  accuracies increased and as MIRVs  appeared. Consequently, these technologies  quickly became the bêtes noires of arms control  advocates (along with ballistic missile defenses, discussed below). If each side in a confrontation possessed one thousand ICBMs  with four warheads apiece, half of either force could attack each of the enemy’s ICBMs with two warheads and possibly eliminate his force in a first strike. 23 The chance that land-based missile  forces might be vulnerable to preemptive attack  led to a variety of responses, the primary one being deployment of missiles  on mobile launchers instead of in fixed silos in order to keep an enemy from knowing the locations of the missiles . Although the United States  canceled its plans for mobile ICBMs  with the demise of the cold war , the Soviet Union  deployed two mobile ICBM  systems—one carried on railroads and the other road-mobile. In response, the United States  planned to use the B-2  stealth  bomber to hunt and attack these weapons. A variety of other basing schemes also addressed the ICBM vulnerability problem, especially during repeated deliberations about how to deploy the American MX  (Peacekeeper) missile in the 1970s and 1980s. 24 However, the presence of a variety of types of strategic nuclear weapons  systems complicate