t innovative and fruitful periods in the history of airpower thought was the interwar period in Continental Europe . By the end of World War I , all the major powers had acquired considerable experience in aerial warfare. Most military professionals and civilian politicians were aware that airpower would remain a vital aspect of military power. The primary role of this revolutionary new weapon, however, remained unclear. Would the air force  primarily support the other services, or would it operate independently? The Continental powers faced the challenge of absorbing and incorporating the experiences of the world war , the capabilities of emerging aviation technology , and the traditional principles of land  and naval warfare , to create a fundamental theory of airpower . They also faced the challenge, as important as the development of airpower theory , of applying this theory as practical operational doctrine , ready for use in planning and directing air operations . The four major air powers of Continental Europe  in the interwar period were France , Italy , the Soviet Union , and Germany . This chapter outlines the development of airpower theory  in each nation, paying particular attention to the interrelationship of theory and doctrine . France France  in the interwar period provides an excellent example of how the lack of effective and appropriate air doctrine reduced a nation from a premier air power at the end of World War I  to a second-rate force at the outbreak of World War II . Ineffective air performance in 1940 played a decisive role in the defeat of France . The weakness of l’armée de l’air  did not 151  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 179 --- result from a lack of funding or a lack of technological capability, but from a senior military leadership that had little understanding of airpower and its capabilities. In the interwar period, the French produced few original airpower  theorists, and the senior military leadership at first reluctan