r, it also calls for the planning of OAS  as a joint air and ground responsibility accomplished at the ACOC —envisioned as part of the joint command operations center found at the ATAF /army group level. Further, the pamphlet provides for the tasking of OAS  missions from the ATOC  (which has tactical control over the flying units) via an air tasking order /message  (ATO/ATM). One may further delegate this tasking authority to an ASOC  normally colocated with a field army/corps—important because ATOC /ASOC normally has diversion authority, which allows the accomplishment of higher priority missions by diverting lower priority missions. In most cases, this would entail diverting BAI to CAS , although the opposite is possible—but improbable. The pamphlet does not address whether a BAI  mission, requested by the air commander , is subject to diversion to aMCCRABB 459  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 483 --- CAS  mission requested by the ground commander . Since ATP-27 implies that CAS  and BAI  provide support to the land force commander , the diversion request would apparently take priority. In sum, one can call the period following the adoption of flexible response  the Golden Age of NATO air doctrine . Before the Goodpaster  initiative in 1970, the doctrine that existed was largely national. The doctrine that emerged was a negotiated doctrine . No one member dominated the ideas concerning airpower employment  that NATO  eventually adopted. The arguments and final outcomes of the BAI  and SEAD  issues clearly point this out. Despite national preferences, airmen from every member country held similar beliefs on the proper role of airpower. The near unanimity over counterair  operations (besides SEAD ) and CAS  attests to this fact. During this period, NATO  took the first steps towards rationalizing its air structure, primarily through the creation in 1974 of AAFCE , located at Ramstein Air Base, West Germany , to command 2ATAF  and 4ATAF . Although this di