95 --- communications. Hopefully, the destruction of such targets would cause “a general undermining of the whole populace, even to the extent of destroying the nation’s will  to continue the struggle.” 66 One notes the muted hope that bombing would make a bloody land campaign  unnecessary. AP 1300 also increased its emphasis on air defense , finally acknowledging the necessity and even desirability of both active and passive measures. In truth, this trend had been in motion for some years, largely imposed on the RAF  from without. The argument that the best defense was a good offense fell out of favor as the Luftwaffe  grew increasingly powerful from 1935 onwards. Intelligence  predictions regarding the size of the German air force—and worse, its superior production rate—forced Britain  to reevaluate its air strategy . At the same time, however, the British economy remained depressed and unable to keep pace with German expansion. In 1937 Thomas Inskip  was appointed minister for the coordination of defense, with guidance to check the rising defense budget. Although often vilified for his stringent fiscal policy in the face of a looming German threat, Inskip  did reorient military aircraft production. Three fighters  could be built for every bomber , so—given the possibilities offered by the new communications warning net and especially the dramatic breakthroughs in the field of radar—Inskip  gave priority to the production of fighter aircraft .67 The notion that bombers  could strike virtually anywhere, anytime, from any direction, and achieve tactical surprise was no longer viable: bombers  could be detected, intercepted, and stopped. The new fighter  planes on the horizon, the Hurricane  and Spitfire —fast, maneuverable, and heavily armed—promised to tip the balance of the air battle  once again against the bomber . As a consequence, strong air defenses  combined with hundreds of new fighters  were in place in England  by 1940: Air Chief Marshal Hugh Dowding ’s F