vocacy. The fact that Trenchard  refused to accept the exaggerated claims of men like Sykes  and Smuts  was more a sign of measured maturity than of fickleness. After a victorious war effort, the military forces of democracies typically do not simply demobilize—they disintegrate. For example, by March 1919 the RAF  had dropped from a force of some 22,000 aircraft and over 240,000 personnel to only 28 understrength squadrons (about two hundred planes) manned by fewer than 30,000 people. The plight of the RAF  seemed especially wobbly when Prime Minister David Lloyd George decided in early 1919 to combine the Ministry of War  and Ministry of Air  into a single unit. Fortunately for the RAF , theMEILINGER 47  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 76 --- man chosen to head this combined ministry—and presumably oversee the demise of the infant RAF —was Winston Churchill . A former army officer who had headed the Admiralty during the first year of the war, Churchill  nonetheless possessed an unusually flexible mind that remained open on the question of airpower. He did not, however, get on well with Frederick Sykes , who exacerbated matters by submitting a plan shortly after the armistice  that called for an enormous air force—fully 154 squadrons, exclusive of training units—deployed through-out  the empire. In a war-weary Britain  strapped for funds, such a proposal was fanciful at best and irresponsible at worst. 15 Sykes , therefore, was nudged into retirement, and Trenchard —who had served with Churchill  in India  many years before—was brought back as CAS. More than any other factor, this decision saved the RAF  as a separate service. Trenchard  has had many detractors, but few would deny his ability as a bureaucratic infighter. Given the weakness and unsettled nature of his service; his relatively junior rank; his lack of a strong faction in Parliament , the press, or the public; and his notoriously poor writing and public speaking skills; his ability to get hi