wings and nine reconnaissance wings. All the fighters—eight wings—were in II Air Corps , under a single command. And 26 groups were allocated to the army support mission under army  command. 17 The two corps would serve under air force —not local army—command. For the first time, France  had created—albeit with obsolete aircraft—a force capable of strategic bombing  operations. During his tenure, Cot  thoroughly revised the primary operational doctrine  of the air force . Operational regulations ofCORUM 155  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 183 --- 1936 included a strategic bombing  mission: “The heavy defensive aircraft [the bomber] has the mission of attacking targets on the battlefield and enemy lines of communication as well as strategic enemy centers to the limit of their range.” 18 Notably, the French government and High Command remained so defensively oriented in the mid-1930s that the air force  could create strategic bombing  units only by using the euphemism “heavy defensive aircraft.” Operational directives of 1937 more specifically required the targeting  of enemy industry: “As an offensive battle, the air battle  has the goal of destroying the primary power of the enemy by bombing the enemy armed forces as well as attacking the lines of communication , the facilities that ensure the mobility of the enemy forces as well as the centers of production which provide necessary materials to the enemy.” 19 In addition to the strategic mission, Cot  argued for the necessity of gaining and keeping air superiority : “The mission of the air force in war is to create conditions so that the sky can be used for all purposes and to ensure that the enemy’s ability to use the air for the same purposes is limited.” 20 At the same time, Cot  attempted to reassure the army  that tactical and support aviation  remained the primary missions of the air force : “Participation in ground operations belongs to the fundamental missions of the air force. All of the operati