minded ,” and financial support from the government were all underpinnings of aeronautical strength. At the same time, Mahan ’s emphasis on sea power ’s commercial aspects and the tie between economic growth and national vigor paralleled Mitchell ’s call for the commercial use of airplanes. Airpower was far more than simply firebombs and high explosives. Yet, like sea power , the essence of airpower was its combat application. Both Mahan  and Mitchell  called for an aggressive, offensive application of force to gain control of their medium. For Mahan , a climactic struggle between battleships  would produce control of the sea, which would permit the victorious navy to control commerce and obtain natural resources. For Mitchell , control of the sky would come from an air battle  or the destruction of the enemy’s airpower on the ground (either by bombing airfields or aircraft factories). After achieving command of the air, Mitchell ’s air force would then wreck an enemy nation’s vital centers  and destroy the enemy’s capability and will  to keep fighting. Mitchell  frequently flaunted his airpower notions before Congress , and those ideas ultimately led to his banishment from his post as assistant chief of the Air Service . In December 1924, Rep. Julian Lampert , chairman of the House Military Affairs Committee , began hearings in response to Rep. John F. Curry ’s bill for a unified aviation service. Mitchell testified extensively at the hearings, making some of his most inflammatory accusations. “All the organization that we have in this country really now is for the protection of vestedCLODFELTER 101  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 130 --- interests against aviation,” he told the committee. He added that some individuals testifying for the government had showed “a woeful ignorance . . . and in some cases possibly a falsification of evidence, with the evident intent to confuse Congress .” When asked by Secretary of War John W. Weeks  to elaborate on his t