ion of different types of weapons can produce a greater result than can any single weapon. Of note, during World War II , Allied bombers  often carried a mix of both high-explosive and incendiary bombs  to achieve the results suggested by Douhet . The general also insisted that air attacks be carried out en masse. In the air, as on the surface, piecemeal attacks were counterproductive. His emphasis on mass in the air—one remembers his call for 20,000 aircraft in 1917—was every bit as pronounced as that of surface generals of the late war. Of equal importance was the rapidity of these mass strikes. The speed and range of aircraft provided the flexibility  to strike several targets simultaneously, which would cause paralysis and collapse. Air strikes would occur so rapidly and massively over a wide area that the collective will  of a country would simply disintegrate. In today’s parlance, Douhet  was referring to “parallel operations ”—the ability to operate simultaneously against several different target sets at both the strategic andMEILINGER 15  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 44 --- tactical levels. Several decades would pass before the accuracy and effectiveness of aircraft and their weapons would allow such parallel operations , but the principle Douhet  outlined in 1921 was certainly viable. Because defense against air attack was impossible, Douhet also stressed the need for an air fleet in-being to attack immediately and relentlessly once hostilities began. Unlike surface forces that could have weeks or even months to prepare, airpower would have no time to mobilize in future wars. A country not ready for war would lose command of the air and, with it, the war itself. Indeed, an unstated conclusion of this position is that airpower would be particularly effective at “first strike” or preventive war. If mobilization were not a factor in air warfare and if air defense were impossible, then obviously the country that struck first would enjoy an enormou