ned an enemy state’s vulnerabilities and then massed bombers  against those weaknesses. For Mitchell , these ideas developed gradually, as a result of his World War I  experience and the relationships he established with British air marshal Sir Hugh Trenchard  and, 79  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 108 --- to a lesser extent, with the Italian general Giulio Douhet . Mitchell  emerged from the war with considerable experience as a pilot and a combat air commander, which greatly enhanced his stature among the coterie of air officers who adopted his beliefs and continued his fight for service independence  after he left the military in early 1926. By the time he retired, he had left an indelible mark on the people who not only would lead the crusade for independence, but also would serve as the leaders of the new United States Air Force . Mitchell  was an apt choice to serve as the messiah of American airpower . Brimming with confidence in any situation, he could charm most audiences, often by relying on his fluent French or his expert polo. Yet, his overwhelming self-assurance did not stem entirely from expertise. Mitchell was a driven man, a man on a mission, a man with little time to waste. He wrote his mother in December 1919 that he was “practically the only one that can bring about a betterment of our national defense at this time” and noted with pride in his diary on Christmas eve five years later, “Supposed to be a half-holiday, but I worked hard all day in the office nevertheless.” 1 People who interfered with his promotion of airpower—or his boundless ego—incurred his wrath. “Mitchell tried to convert his opponents by killing them first,” observed his wartime colleague, Hugh Trenchard .2 During the war, Mitchell ’s vanity produced bitter and largely unnecessary clashes with fellow airmen Benjamin “Benny” Foulois  and Edgar “Nap” Gorrell , both of whom, he believed, had snubbed him after obtaining high Air Service  positions. 3 Mitchell ’s birth i