rgued for giving tanks a central role in army doctrine, de Gaulle ’s few references to airpower dealt only with reconnaissance  and observation of artillery fire. 24 The revised French army operational doctrine  of 1936 showed little confidence in the air force ’s ability to conduct anything more than pure support operations. Bombing  enemy targets received fourth priority as an airpower  mission, behind reconnaissance , liaison, and air defense .25 Although Cot argued for an aggressive air superiority  strategy, the army’s operational doctrine  emphasized the improbability of achieving air superiority : “Air superiority can only be achieved on the front lines and then only for limited periods.” 26 In 1938 Gamelin  commented, “The role of aviation is apt to be exaggerated, and after the early days of war the wastage will be such that it will more and more be confined to acting as an accessory to the army.” 27 After Cot  lost his position as air minister in 1938, he wrote L’Armée de l’Air  (1939), which provided a thorough critique of French air doctrine  in the interwar period. Although the French air force  had become nominally independent, airpower lacked comprehensiveness. For example, the air defense  of the country came under the jurisdiction of three different ministries. The army ’s artillery branch produced and controlled antiaircraft guns; civil defense came under the Ministry of the Interior ; and fighter defense became the responsibility of the Air Ministry . Cot  criticized such decentralization, arguing for the unification of all aspects of airpower under a single command. Neither Cot  nor Douhet commentators P. Vauthier  and Camille Rougeron  denied theCORUM 157  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 185 --- importance of support aviation  for the army , but the development of the strategic air force  remained their top priority. The replacement of Cot  with Guy LeChambre  as air minister killed any hope for real reform in the air force . LeChambr