r in 1991 is an example of what Douhet predicted airpower could accomplish. Specifically, his formula for victory—gaining command of the air, neutralizing an enemy’s strategic “vital centers ,” and maintaining the defensive on the ground while taking the offensive in the air—underpinned coalition  strategy. Certainly, not all wars have followed or will follow this model, but unquestionably Douhet ’s theories of airpower employment have become more accurate as time has passed and as the air weapon has become more capable. The purpose of this chapter is to reexamine the theories of this first great air theorist, analyze them based on their own internal logic, and reassess them. Giulio Douhet  was born in Caserta, near Naples, on 30 May 1869. His father came from a long line of soldiers, and his mother was from a family of teachers and journalists. He performed well in school, graduating first in his class at the Genoa Military Academy. Giulio was then commissioned into the artillery in 1888 at the age of 19. Soon after, he attended the Polytechnic Institute in Turin and continued his studies in science and engineering. His performance continued to be excellent, and his graduate thesis, “The Calculation of Rotating Field Engines,” became a standard text at the school. Douhet ’s professional ability was also evident, and as a captain in 1900, he was assigned to the General Staff. There, 1  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 30 --- he read closely all reports regarding the Russo-Japanese War , which broke out in 1903. Early on, he predicted that Japan would emerge victorious, but few Westerners agreed with him at the time. Also while on the General Staff, he continued his technological bent and wrote several papers advocating mechanization of the Italian army . In 1901 he published a series of lectures titled “Mechanization from the Point of View of the Military,” and three years later he wrote a pamphlet on the subject—“Heavy and Military Mechanization.” Signifi