ave little need for vulnerable surface forces  that would play bit parts in a major war against the Soviet Union . Why have a navy when there were no sea lanes to protect and no enemy fleet to contest them? In a viciousTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 262  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 289 --- comment, he dismissed fleets as henceforth existing merely in “vestigial form as a transport auxiliary of air power, but even that will be temporary.” 79 Indeed, he was convinced that the Air Force  (an independent service since 1947) should be dominant within the defense establishment and was suspicious of calls for greater “unification” of the armed forces. De Seversky thought that unification, like the old AAF  idea of 1941, was a trick to keep airpower tied to the surface:  “Because their primary functions have been obsoleted by science, the older services are trying to perpetuate them by bureaucratic law.” America  was more than ever an airpower nation whose destiny lay in air and space. Calls for “balanced forces” were an archaic and uninspired method of defense planning that diluted the potent and decisive aspects of airpower. 80 When “massive retaliation” became official US strategy during the Eisenhower  administration, de Seversky  embraced it (indeed, his writings since the end of World War II  had called for much the same thing, though without the catchy title). He rejected notions of limited war , stating that they inevitably ended in stalemate. Moreover, airpower lost its special advantages in such conflicts; Korea  was an aberration, and it must stay that way. Unfortunately, Korea  would lead “orthodox thinkers” to believe that such conventional war  was still likely. On the other hand, in an era of decreasing defense budgets  but increasing commitments, he—as well as the new president and his advisors—saw airpower as the only plausible solution. Such a strategy also necessitated a technologically first-rate air force, ready to fight at a moment’s notice. Clearl