with airships . With an optimism that was totally unfounded, he envisionedCLODFELTER 93  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 122 --- dirigibles  as capable of traveling thousands of miles, in all kinds of weather, while also serving as airborne platforms for pursuit aircraft . Although some airships  had launched and recovered pursuit  planes, the idea was a technological dead end. Both the Army  and Navy  were out of the airship  business by the mid-1930s. Perhaps Mitchell  hoped that Congress  would establish a unified air force including both Army  and Navy  air. He had called for such an organization since 1919. The model for this scheme existed in Britain , where the Royal Air Force  maintained control of naval aviation , even that deployed at sea on aircraft carriers . In an article written in 1920, Mitchell  called for “floating airdromes” under air force control , which would protect the American coast. This development would make airpower the first line of American defense rather than naval power. 46 As time passed, Mitchell  realized that an independent air force  would not appear quickly and that the creation of big carriers  like the Lexington  and Saratoga  posed a threat to unification. The Navy  was becoming self-sufficient in airpower. Hence, he felt the need to denigrate carriers , portraying them as expensive, vulnerable, and ineffective. His efforts were futile and, paradoxically, gave a healthy boost to naval aviation  by alerting the admiralty to the need for air superiority  over the fleet. General Menoher ’s comment at the time of the Ostfriesland  sinking—“I guess maybe the navy will get its airplane carriers  now”—had become an ironic prophecy. 47 Although Mitchell ’s foreign visits expanded his airpower ideas, the trips failed to curb his penchant for seeking public support for his notions. He was certain that the Army  leadership would never endorse his desire for air force  autonomy because his beliefs clashed with the Army ’s trad