hough the identification of an enemy’s center(s) of gravity  may prove difficult, they remain clearly defined for each antagonist. That is, each side will have deployed its forces to protect its center of gravity . The enemy’s center of gravity  will always be “over there” behind enemy lines. The central tenet of Western military thought for at least the past two hundred years has been to attack or put one’s forces in a position to attack an enemy’s center of gravity , thus either destroying the enemy’s ability to resist or coercing capitulation. By contrast, in an insurgency , both antagonists have the same center of gravity —the people. Neither the government in power nor the insurgency  can long exist without support from the people. Without some support from the people, or at least their neutrality in the struggle, the insurgent underground infrastructure would find itself quickly exposed and eliminated. With the destruction of the infrastructure, the insurgency  has no political arm, no intelligence  apparatus, no source of military manpower, and no logistical  support. At the same time, no government can survive without theDREW 325  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 351 --- acquiescence of the people—least of all a government actively opposed by an attractive and aggressive insurgent movement. 10 All of this, of course, brings into question the applicability of Western military and US airpower theory advocating the attack of an enemy’s center of gravity  by putting fire and steel on target. The Rise of Protracted Revolutionary Warfare, 1945–64 Not long after World War II , Western democracies faced the very different challenge of protracted revolutionary warfare . Many of the difficulties arose in Southeast Asia  when the collapse of Japanese forces created a power vacuum prior to the return of the colonial powers. In the Philippines , the Communist-led People’s Anti- Japanese Army  quickly changed its name to the People’s Liberation Army  and changed