osed socioeconomic systems—not the adaptable and open systems that they typically were, for example, in World War II. (7) The theory wrongly assumed that opposing states were rational, unitary actors that based their political decisions on lucid cost-benefit analyses and not on potentially obscure organizational, bureaucratic, or emotional factors. (Is it not possible, for example, that a state might continue to struggle—at higher costs—to demonstrate its resolve in future  contingencies?) (8) The Bomber Mafia  grossly exaggerated the frailty and manipulability of popular morale . More specifically, it failed to realize that whatever angry passions strategic bombing aroused among civilians might be directed at the attacker rather than the victim’s own government. Therefore, a hostile regime might actually experience less pressure from its own people to quit fighting as a result of air attacks . If it did, would not its internal resolve exceed that of its people, as has happened before? (9) Last, as already suggested, the strategic economic targeting  methods formulated at ACTS ran the risk of “mirror imaging,” whereby the key nodes of one’s own industrial infrastructure become confused with the critical vulnerabilities of an opponent’s system. 145 For example, US air planners  in World War II  assumed that German machinery used the same number of ball bearings as American equipment. Since they did not, Eighth Air Force  bombers  attacked a target set  that had considerable “slack” to expend.FABER 221  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 248 --- An Open Conclusion At the end of the interwar period and despite all of the above problems, the Air Corps ’s ad hoc, four-part strategy had largely worked. The Air Corps  had survived, and through its efforts with the general public, sympathetic “fellow travelers,” members of Congress , and ACTS  (in all its guises), it secured a semiautonomous strike force—GHQ Air Force ; it had a shared (yet still ambiguous) responsi