vant. Thus, in both the practice and the theory  of war, emphasis on the physical sphere is understandable, acceptable, and— indeed—preferable. In contrast, Boyd ’s theory of maneuvering inside the enemy’s mental process, as depicted by the OODA loop  model, is more philosophical, abstract, and nonlinear. He recognizes the uncertainty of war and the subsequent need for mental agility and creativity—in short, genius. He believes that one can teach genius and sets out to do just that for his audience by means of the mental process of “destruction and creation.” He preaches familiarity with many different theories, doctrines, and models so that, through the genius of “destruction and creation,” the military strategist  can build from the gems in each of them a plan of attack most appropriate to the situation at hand. Furthermore, through extensive training and practice, the strategist  can build such a plan at a faster tempo than his adversary so as to fold him back inside himself and ultimately defeat his will to resist .FADOK 381  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 406 --- Warden  asserts that success in twenty-first-century war will result from adherence to the principles of parallel , inside-out attack. Boyd  asserts that success in future war , as in all past wars, will result from genius in the face of menacing uncertainty. As Grant Hammond  observes, “Boyd  knows certainty doesn’t exist; Warden  wants it to.”71 Having explored the respective ideas of Boyd  and Warden and highlighted areas of convergence and divergence, we can now examine the contribution of both theories to the evolution of airpower thought in the twentieth century. As we shall see, the works of these two airmen represent a fundamental shift in strategic air theory—one from paralysis  via economic warfare  to paralysis  via control warfare . As the twentieth century passed its midpoint, the modern world began a slow metamorphosis from an industrial society to an informational society. Fu