a variety  of actions that one can execute with the greatest possible rapidity . Similar to the contemporary notion of parallel warfare , this lethal combination of varied, rapid actions serves to overload the adversary’s capacity to properly identify and address those events that appear most threatening. By steadily reducing an opponent’s physical and mental capability to resist, one ultimately crushes his moral will to resist  as well. Boyd  argues that severe disruption occurs by rapidly and repeatedly presenting the enemy with a combination of ambiguous (but threatening) events and deceptive (but nonthreatening) ones. These multiple events, compressed in time, quickly generate mismatches—or anomalies—between those actions the opponent believes to threaten his survival and those that actually do. The enemy must eliminate these mismatches between perception and reality if his reactions are to remain relevant—that is, if he is to survive. We should hamper the opponent’s ability to process information, make decisions, and take appropriate action, thus ensuring that he cannot rid himself of these menacing anomalies. In consequence, he can no longer determine what is being done to him and how he should respond. Ultimately, the adversary’s initial confusion degenerates into paralyzing panic, and his ability and/or willingness to resist ceases. Boyd  views the adversary as a three-dimensional being, consisting of “moral-mental-physical bastions, connections, or activities that he depends upon.” 25 To defeat this being, Boyd advocates standing Clausewitz  on his head. Instead of destroying “hubs of all power and movement,” one should create noncooperative centers of gravity (COG)  by attackingFADOK 365  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 390 --- the moral-mental-physical linkages that bind the hubs together. This destroys the enemy’s internal harmony and external connection to the real world, producing paralysis  and collapsing resistance. In perhaps the most wel