e 584 --- instantaneous. Airpower response time can occur as quickly as putting F-117s  on target anywhere in the world within 24 hours of notification; however, providing sustained airpower (limitation of duration) requires extensive mobilization— witness the huge buildup prior to the onset of Desert Storm .63 The potential for immediate response of space-based platforms makes speed of response a characteristic advantage of space power . Firepower An Mk 84 two-thousand-pound all-purpose bomb without any explosive charge, released at 30,000 feet and 530 knots, carries the energy equivalent to roughly 145 pounds of TNT. The same Mk 84 dumb bomb in LEO  carries one hundred times the energy—the explosive power of seven tons of TNT. 64 This may seem like a great deal, but several mitigating factors come into play: 1. If that energy is employed, most is lost due to drag effects upon reentry. 2. The explosive power of modern conventional weapons comes from their explosive filling rather than their kinetic energy: the explosive charge of an Mk 84—428 kg of Tritonal 65—is equivalent to roughly nine hundred pounds of TNT. Other conventional explosives marginally exceed Tritonal capacity. 66 3. Many lofted weapons (e.g., cluster bombs) require specific velocities for employment, completely negating the space-stationed energy advantage. 4. The cost of putting “dumb” energy in orbit is prohibitive (at $10,000/pound, putting a “dumb” Mk 84 in orbit would cost an astronomical $20 million). 67 As far as mass is concerned, firepower from space has significant limitations. Directed energy weapons  provide another option. Currently, concerted efforts are under way to produce high-powered lasers with very significant atmospheric range. The Phillips Laboratory ’s airborne laser program hasDEBLOIS 561  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 585 --- pushed laser state of the art to new levels: megawatt power, submicroradian beam control (one-foot “wiggles” at 200 km), and lethal rang