an forces, and (3) preserve subsequent NATO  ground forces ’ freedom of maneuver. At the same time, however, NATO  recognized a need to attack Warsaw Pact second-echelon forces and even airfields. How NATO  expected to balance these requirements requires further investigation. First, NATO planners  did not see air forces as mere “flying artillery” that supported the ground force’s close battle—the traditional use of close air support (CAS) . They did recognize, though, that the alliance would need airpower if Warsaw Pact forces achieved a breakthrough or if the initial NATO deployment was incomplete. The primary air-to-ground mission of NATO  air forces entailed interdicting rear areas and follow-on forces—the traditional mission of air interdiction (AI). Furthermore, the primary targets for these missions were Warsaw Pact  forces themselves, especially armored forces, rather than their means of transportation (e.g., trucks or trains) to the front. Bridges were the only nonmobile targets generally mentioned in this context. Second, these missions were to be flown largely within the confines of East Germany , mainly to an operational depth of about two hundred kilometers from the political borders—a stipulation reflected in NATO  force structure. Most of the alliance’s aircraft were of relatively short range, typifying their defensive nature. These missions sought to disrupt the intentions of Warsaw Pact  commanders by forcing them to disperse as they moved towards the battle and to force a deployment of air defense  assets to protect second-echelon forces and hence minimize NATO  air losses at the front. Forward defense, as both a strategic and an operational plan, stated that NATO  should defend its Central Region  (West Germany ) as far forward as possible, with defense beginning immediately behind the border, and that its forces should not surrender territory without a fight. Again, planners always kept nuclear weapons  in mind because political realities dictate