he prestige of the air arm overshadowed that of the submariners. In the end, then, aviation  apparently integrated itself into the Navy  and its thinking, mostly in the realm of method rather than objective. The environment for military conflict remained similar in many ways, and nation-states still responded most clearly to coercion by military force. The naval vision still largely maintained that one first had to apply force to the armed forces of an adversary, and only later directly to the territory or other values after achieving command of the sea, the air, and the land approaches. At sea, the method of applying that force had changed, in that the carrier  had become the capital ship , and the rest were to lend support. This implied that the postwar reorganization should not change our national security  structure radically and that the Navy  should certainly retain its own air arm. Even though naval aviators had risen to commanding heights of the sea service, the opposition of surface sailors was not as reactionary as sometimes pictured. Further, it seems fair to picture the intellectual style of the Navy  as tending neitherTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 136  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 165 --- toward the reactionary nor the radical—but an evolutionary or progressive cast of mind. Notes 1. I agree with Carl Builder that the personification of institutions entails serious limitations and that there can be no all-inclusive “Navy mind” any more than a “military mind.” Thus, any insight emerging from this chapter can be no more than a tendency or an approximation—if that much. Acknowledgment is particularly important in this case. Although I graduated from the Naval Academy and before that, had an aviation rating in the enlisted Navy, all that was more than 40 years ago, and I have had little to do with naval history or naval aviation since then. I have received very important assistance for this chapter from distinguished experts in the field of naval histor