al Access to the Realm Political access to the realm does not show up in current literature on airpower, land power , and sea power  because in times of crisis, people rarely call into question the political will to dominate those realms. 30 Political control —imposing limitations on the application of military power—is a constitutional reality. Limitations placed on the employment of airpower—rules of engagement (ROE) —particular to each situation distinguish airpower from space power . Air campaign planners  have the freedom to plan for the full exploitation of the air realm and recognize that ROE  may constrain the use of the plan in a given situation. Space campaign planners  must recognize fundamental limitations on the exploitation of the space realm, even in the planning phase. Rational, emotional, and legal factors, discussed above, produce these limitations, which affect current policy as well as transient actions  such as the current bans on ASAT production and testing, in place since 1985. Rational and emotional factors currently dominate; that is, the limitations do not affect what we can do but what we have the will to do. The distinction between the access of airpower and space power  to the respective realms stems from political limitations placed upon military access and use of space, referred to here as “political access.” A political limit to the access of military space has existed since the 1960s and is not likely to disappear in the near future. Airpower does not have such a limitation on access . Therefore, political access to the realm is a characteristic advantage of airpower. Sovereignty Nations retain sovereignty over their air realm, but by virtue of the Outer Space Treaty  of 1967, they can claim no sovereignty of the space realm—sovereignty rests with the spacecraft  and not the medium. 31 Although this situation imposes some limitations since no national borders protect space assets, it facilitates most operations. Unrestricted access t