y recognized that states fearing catastrophe would try to avoid it. The body of theory that emerged from their efforts emphasizes a relatively small number of central concepts, most of which are relevant to—and many of which are borrowed from—arenas of the military and other social sciences not directly connected to nuclear strategy . Deterrence The most fundamental concept in nuclear strategy  is deterrence , the idea that states will not attack each other when the expected costs and benefits of attacking appear less attractive than the expected value of not attacking. Thus, by shifting the balance in favor of the latter option, one can avert war. 35 Strategic airpower  seemed to add to this calculus the ability to make war unpleasant for a prospective attacker by means independent of fighting the foe on the battlefield; nuclear weapons  radically increased the amount of such damage one could inflict in a relatively short time. 36 Because of their ability to punish a state massively for launching an attack, successful or not, atomic —especially thermonuclear— weapons  permitted their owners to adopt security strategies based on deterrence  rather than defense. The distinction between deterrence  and defense is important and widely misunderstood. 37 On the one hand, deterrence  has to do with changing the enemy’s beliefs about how good or bad war will be, relative to the alternatives. A punitive threat of nuclear retaliation  may deter, and so may a threat to defeat an invader’s army, making war look unappealing by making defeat appear likely. 38 The latter approach to deterrence  is commonly known as deterrence by  denial , although some theorists prefer to reserve the “deterrence ” label for punishment alone. 39 By the same token, one could well speak of deterring through rewards or other positive incentives—by increasing the attractiveness of not attacking rather than (or in addition to) making attacking look worse. 40MUELLER 293  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pd