not unilaterally defeat an enemy nation without the active cooperation of ground  and naval forces ; nor could they defeat an opponent quickly (i.e., humanely), as also promised. As a result, Army  and Navy leaders argued steadfastly that land-based airpower  was merely an auxiliary tool of war. Gen John J. Pershing , spoke for the “old guard” when he observed that an Air Force acting independently can of its own account neither win a war at the present time, nor, so far as we can tell at any time in the future. . . . [If] success is to be expected, the military Air Force must be controlled in the same way, understand the same discipline, and act in accordance with the Army commander under precisely the same conditions as the other combat arms. 5 Navy  spokesmen, in turn, repeatedly informed their civilian counterparts (including the Howell Commission  of 1934) that the primary role of the Air Corps  was to operate as an arm of the Army , and only afterwards to conduct “air operations  in support of or in lieu of naval forces .”6 The disagreement over the nature and utility of American airpower  confirms that Captain Barker  was wrong—military traditionalists refused to see the air weapon as “a force within itself,” either in the waning months of World War I  or afterwards. This conclusion, however, begs another question. Was the dispute between the regular Army  and its “aeromaniacs” one between equals? On Armistice Day  air enthusiasts might have said “yes.” On that day the Air Service contained over 190,000 men, 40 percent of whom were assigned to the American Expeditionary Force (AEF)  in Europe ; it controlled 48 airfields and 19 depots within theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 184  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 211 --- continental United States ; it owned approximately 11,000 aircraft, seventy-eight hundred of which were trainers; and it had 10,000 trained pilots. 7 However, with the end of hostilities this sizable force disappeared almost overnight. AEF comm