e Russians redirected about 70 percent of their defense budget  into the social sector. Additionally, Russian politicians programmed almost 70 percent of theFELKER 515  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 539 --- remaining defense budget  for construction of military family housing to solve critical shortages and fund social programs for badly deprived military personnel. By late 1993 the promised military funding allocations were more than three trillion rubles in arrears . To compensate for declining investment in military equipment, the Russian military bartered first-line arms for capital to augment its declining operations and maintenance costs. 114 Jacob Kipp  points out that the Russian military was using many of the arms sales and barters to pay for the cost of demobilization. 115 Yet, the defense minister claimed that the Russian army would “eventually have the most advanced weapons,” 116 while at the same time the economic crisis compelled the Russians to cut their military force structure considerably—to as low as 1.5 million. 117 Clearly, it is a long way from bartering for operations and maintenance funds back to military superpower status. In the new military doctrine , the General Staff all but ignores political instability from within and prepares to fight an air-space war against a major adversary. To many military and civilian leaders, this strategy represents the Russians’ clearest chance at maintaining military superpower status. In the near term, they will rely on countering the US air-space domination of air-space technology —namely cruise missiles , space sensors, stealth , and so forth. For the long term, they plan to build the infrastructure capable of producing the advanced technologies  they need for the Russian armed forces. Somewhere in between is what Mary FitzGerald  calls the “transition period,” with its reliance on limited nuclear war to deter and defeat worse-case threats. Given the Russians’ analysis from the Gulf War  that