unnecessary clashes with fellow airmen Benjamin “Benny” Foulois  and Edgar “Nap” Gorrell , both of whom, he believed, had snubbed him after obtaining high Air Service  positions. 3 Mitchell ’s birth in 1879 into the cream of American society contributed to his exaggerated view of his own self-worth. (He was born in Nice, France , where his parents were vacationing.) With a US senator for a father and a grandfather who had been a banker and railroad tycoon, he possessed ties to leaders in both government and industry. Moreover, his father’s service in the Civil War  produced in Billy a martial spirit that manifested itself in 1898, when war with Spain erupted. Mitchell , only 18, enlisted as a private in his father’s old regiment, but almost immediately the senator’s connections secured him a commission in the Signal Corps . Arriving in Cuba  in time to witness the surrender of theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 80  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 109 --- Spanish garrison, Mitchell  remained in occupation duty for seven months before transferring to the Philippines . Service in the islands, America ’s first major overseas possession, proved intensely interesting and exciting for the young lieutenant. Letters to his family describe with verve the exotic jungle duty, chasing rebels and pacifying the countryside. Given special attention are various hunting and fishing expeditions, firefights with “marauders,” and a nasty bout of malaria. 4 Clearly, Mitchell  relished the strenuous, outdoor life of an Army officer on remote duty. After a brief visit to China  during the Boxer Rebellion , as well as stops in Japan , India , and Europe , Mitchell  returned to Washington . In July 1901, Brig Gen Adolphus Greely , chief of the Signal Corps , then posted the 20-year-old officer to Alaska , which was at that point largely uninhabited wilderness, but the Army  sought to tie it closer to the lower states via telegraph. Mitchell ’s task was to string the necessary lines across thi