ense’s current definition for air superiority reads, “That degree of dominance in the air battle of one force over another which permits the conduct of operations by the former and its related land, sea and air forces at a given time and place without prohibitive interference by the opposing force.” Air supremacy is defined as “that degree of air superiority wherein the opposing air force is incapable of effective interference.” Joint Pub 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 23 March 1994. Douhet’s concept of command of the air is closer to our notion of air supremacy. 27. Douhet (Fischer translation), 47–48. In a memo written in 1916, Douhet was a bit more specific, listing the following as potential targets: “railroad junctions, arsenals, ports, warehouses, factories, industrial centers, banks, ministries, etc.” Cappelluti, 107. 28. Douhet (Fischer translation), 48. 29. Giulio Douhet, The Command of the Air,  trans. Dino Ferrari (1942; reprint, Washington, D.C.: Office of Air Force History, 1983), 367–68. Although the editors have added a brief introduction, the pagination of the essays themselves remains the same as in the original. 30. Douhet (Fischer translation), 171. 31. Ibid., 83–84. 32. Ibid., 86. 33. There is little indication Douhet attempted to spread his ideas on airpower outside Italy. He wrote virtually all of his works for Italian magazines and journals—he was not a propagandist in the mold of Billy Mitchell. Although he probably attempted to influence the Bolling Commission during World War I, he did so to enlist the United States as a useful ally and partner in the war against the Central Powers. 34. Douhet’s reference to the United States is significant and is exemplified today by our Army’s helicopter fleet, one of the largest air forces in the world with more than six thousand aircraft. Its sole mission is toTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 36  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 65 --- support ground operations. Do