s  and Sub-Saharan Africa  helped prompt the outpouring of research literature in the civilian and military press. During much of this period, LIC  and, more specifically, protracted revolutionary warfare  remained “hot” topics, thought by many people to presage the future. 65 On the other hand, the official response of the Air Force reflected confusion and disdain. At one level, the Air Force made significant progress toward an airpower theory that included protracted revolutionary warfare . At another level, the service ignored and contradicted that theory. The result, as of this writing, is confusion. The Unofficial Response Compared to that of previous periods, the literature on protracted revolutionary warfare  was extensive. Importantly, analysts reached consensus about (1) the nature of LIC , (2) the general outlines of counterinsurgency strategy , (3) the airpower technology  required, and (4) the role of airpower in the military portion of a counterinsurgency strategy . Deryck Eller , Rod Paschall , Thomas Hammes , William Olson , Larry Cable , and I all came to the conclusion that LIC really means protracted revolutionary warfare  (insurgency ) or, at least within the low intensity field, that insurgency  should remain the central consideration of policy makers  and the military. 66 This conclusion is in line with the notions of Sam C. Sarkesian , who noted that the “substantive dimensions of such conflicts evolve primarily from revolutionary  and counterrevolutionary strategy  and causes. . . . Limited conventional wars  and acts of terrorism  are outside the boundaries of low-intensity conflicts . Revolution and counterrevolution are the major categories.” 67THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 340  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 366 --- Prescriptively, these authors also demonstrated large areas of consensus. First, virtually all agreed that increasing the legitimacy of the government under siege was the key to successful counterinsurgency . Accordingly, the