ments (with calcium arsenate) to protect cotton and fruit crops from pests; it dabbled in the aerial seeding of farmland; and it highlighted the success of Navy aviation  in mapping the Mississippi Delta for a cost of less than $8,000. (The aerial mapping was a significant feat since over 50 percent of US territory remained unsurveyed at the time.) 37 Later, when a devastating floodFABER 191  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 218 --- destroyed nearly five thousand houses and 2,615 buildings in Southern Alabama, the Air Corps  demonstrated its utility in yet another arena—disaster relief. 38 During 15–20 March 1929, aircraft from Maxwell Field  flew 346 flights and dropped 27.5 tons of supplies “to distressed thousands in an area which otherwise would have been inaccessible for days.” 39 Finally, the Air Service  inaugurated and briefly provided airmail service  in 1918. Sixteen years later, the Air Corps resumed the responsibility when Postmaster General James A. Farley  abruptly suspended the work of civilian contractors. (The Roosevelt administration suspected that the contractors had used fraud and collusion to secure their routes from the Republicans previously in power.) From 19 February until 1 June 1934, the Air Corps  struggled mightily to deliver the mail, but unusually bad weather, limited training and experience, and inadequate equipment left a number of pilots dead and the Air Corps ’s reputation sullied. 40 (A potential problem, however, turned into an advantage when Secretary of War George Dern  appointed the Baker Board  to investigate the Air Corps ’s dubious performance. The board concluded that the Air Corps  was ill prepared to carry the mail, but it partially blamed government parsimony for its limited success. Ironically then, the Baker Board ’s investigation revived official interest and support for the Air Corps , even though it had failed to perform as advertised. According to Benny Foulois , a man who Villa Tinker  claimed “had neve