pared to the deaths produced by a ground war  between industrialized powers. Moreover, once bombed, civilians  were unlikely to continue supporting the war effort. “In the future, the mere threat of bombing a town by an air force will cause itTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 96  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 125 --- to be evacuated and all work in munitions and supply factories to be stopped,” he asserted. 55 In Mitchell ’s eyes, civilian will  was exceedingly fragile, and its collapse would cause a corresponding loss in war-making capability. In addition, one did not have to attack civilians directly to produce a direct impact on an enemy’s will to fight . Although adamant about the fragile nature of civilian will , Mitchell  was less than explicit about how breaking it would translate into a rapid peace. His vision of such air attacks  was apocalyptic in the extreme: Tardy ones claw and clutch and scramble, clambering on top of those who have fallen. Before long there is a yelling, fighting mass of humanity. . . . Attacking planes, leaving New York a heap of dead and smoldering ashes, had proceeded safely to other strategic points where they duplicated their bloody triumph. . . . Gases produced by a conflagration in a city such as New York, would fill the subways and all places below ground in short order. 56 He thus thought that air raids would trigger evacuations of hundreds of thousands of people from great cities. Those refugees would not be able to obtain adequate food or shelter, and their plight would cause a war to end. “There is only one alternative and that is surrender,” he wrote in 1930. “It is a quick way of deciding a war and really much more humane than the present methods of blowing people to bits by cannon projectiles or butchering them with bayonets.” 57 Yet, Mitchell neglected to say whether “surrender” would occur because the government of the battered nation was sympathetic to the plight of its people, because it feared overthrow by an irate p