ensured support of ground forces  as they penetrated the enemy’s defensive positions. 43 The Air Operation.  Generally, strategic operations began with an air offensive. As part of a strategic offensive operation, an air operation  functioned as a joint operation of all aviation resources coordinated on an operational-strategic scale. 44 Air operations  entailed the aggregate of mass strikes, air engagements, and successive actions coordinated and conducted simultaneously—or successively—by air force operational formations. They aimed to destroy enemy air as well as operational and strategic reserves in the TVD . Additionally, the air operation  prevented enemy strategic movement within the TVD  and destroyed the enemy’s military and economic potential. 45 Thus, the air operation  attempted to destroy the enemy’s main aviation groupings and create a favorable air situation. This required air forces to seize the initiative, retain strike power, provide freedom of movement to frontal forces, and guarantee operational success. As the air operation  concluded, aviation units reverted to direct support of ground units. 46 The air operation —the principal component of the  total Soviet effort toFELKER 497  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 521 --- negate enemy nuclear capability in the initial periods of a conflict—sought to establish air superiority . It differed from support of the general offensive because it did not occur coincidentally with the advance of ground-maneuver forces. Russian Impression of the Gulf War Studying the Gulf War  proved important for the Soviets as they redefined their military doctrine . Unfortunately, however, as Ben Lambeth  says, “Operations Desert Shield  and Desert Storm  occurred at a time when the Soviet political system was hopelessly unsuited to profit from any teachings of the war because of more pressing distractions, notably an economy in ruin and the rapidly accelerating disintegration of the Soviet Union .”47 Despite the