te in 1957, producing unprecedented alarm in a United States accustomed both to virtual invulnerability to direct attack and to a comfortable lead on the Soviets in all things technological. ICBMs  and other ballistic missiles  differed in several important respects from the bombers  they first supplemented and soon began to supplant. They were far faster and able to travel from one superpower’s territory to the other’s in something on the order of 30 minutes. They could not be intercepted (until antiballistic missiles [ABM ] were developed), whereas only some of the bombers  would successfully penetrate enemy air defenses . Land-based missiles  also proved more economical to maintain than bombers  and their crews and proved more suitable to tight centralized control . Both of these characteristics appealed to the Soviet Union , which would end up investing a far higher proportion of its strategic nuclear resources in ICBMs  than would the United States . On the other hand, one could not recall missiles  after launch, 13 which meant they had to wait at their bases, perhaps vulnerable to attack, until the proper authorities decided to launch them. Further, they were inferior to bombers  in payload, accuracy (until the 1980s), and—above all—versatility. Early ballistic missiles  also required fueling with highly volatile liquid propellants prior to launching— which required warning time—and they could remain fueled and ready to launch only for a matter of hours before they would have to stand down for a considerable period. But the development of more advanced rocket fuels later removed these limitations. Similar weapons took to the sea in the form of sea-launched ballistic missiles (SLBM) , beginning in the early 1960s.MUELLER 283  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 309 --- Generally smaller and shorter ranged than their land-based counterparts, as well as solid-fueled, SLBMs  offered the tremendous advantage of being based on platforms difficult or impossibl