s previously cited. Using a relatively obscure essay published in 1970 by Nathan Leites  and Charles Wolf  Jr. as a framework, 80 Parsons  produced both a general philosophical approach to counterinsurgency  and the role of airpower in such efforts. According to Parsons , Leites  and Wolf  characterized an insurgency  as a system of inputs, conversions, and outputs—all three of which form centers of gravity  for an insurgent movement. A comprehensive counterinsurgent  campaign must perform four functions: interdict inputs, disrupt the conversion process, reduce outputs, and build a government’s capability to resist. 81 Although military forces can prove useful in performing all four functions, their primary role lies in reducing outputs in the form of insurgent military forces, particularly their leadership cadre. In this role, conducting reconnaissance , maintaining air LOC , and flying close air support  are most effective. However, airpower, in the form of PSYOP , can also be an effective tool in disrupting the conversion process—and the maintenance of air LOC  can be crucial to building a government’s legitimacy and capacity to resist the insurgent movement.82 Airmen concerned with protracted revolutionary warfare and other forms of LIC  also experienced one severe disappointment during this period. Critics hailed The Air Campaign: Planning for Combat  (1988) by Col John M. Warden III as the most significant theoretical work on airpower since the days of Billy Mitchell . Unfortunately, Warden  addressed only conventional warfare  and failed even to acknowledge the fundamental differences between conventional warfare  and protracted revolutionary warfare .83 The fact that Warden ’s subsequent writings have also ignored the subject is particularly unfortunate because his influence has become soDREW 343  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 369 --- pronounced within the Air Force . As one of the architects of the air campaign  against Iraq  in the Gulf War  a