ific Ocean, is to keep their soil, their institutions, and their manner of living free from the ownership, the dominion, and the customs of the Orientals who people the western shores of this the greatest of all oceans. . . . Eventually in their search for existence the white and yellow races will be brought into armed conflict to determine which shall prevail. 39 Mitchell  added his thoughts about airpower’s role in a future Pacific war to his account of the journey. He believed that the value of aircraft carriers  was practically nil “because not only can they not operate efficiently on the high seas but even if they could they cannot place sufficient aircraft in the air at one time to insure a concentrated operation.” 40 He thought that land-based aircraft were the key to dominating Pacific island groups and might enable the Japanese to launch a surprise attack on American forces in the Hawaiian Islands. Mitchell  contended that only an opposing air force could stop such an aerial assault. Other defensive measures, like cannon and barrage balloons, acted “only to give a false sense of security very much [like] what the ostrich must feel when he hides his head in the sand.” 41THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 92  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 121 --- Despite his comment regarding the limited value of aircraft carriers , Mitchell  was ambivalent on the subject. The only American carrier  then in commission was the converted collier Langley , a poor excuse for a symbol of maritime might. The idea behind the  Langley  was another matter. Initially, Mitchell was much taken by the prospect of putting aircraft aboard ships that traveled with the fleet. Indeed, he believed that their presence was essential, theorizing that vessels of all sizes were hopelessly vulnerable to air attack . Because only aircraft could defeat other aircraft, the defensive solution was self-evident. “Airplane carriers ,” as he called them, were the means to provide a moveable cloak of air superi