lution.pdf --- Page 396 --- decisive manner. Central to this theme is the Clausewitzian concept of an enemy’s COG , defined by Warden  as “that point where the enemy is most vulnerable and the point where an attack will have the best chance of being decisive.” 40 Properly identifying these COGs  is the critical first step in planning and conducting military operations. As suggested earlier, the incorporation of this notion of COGs  into airpower theory is by no means novel. However, Warden ’s description above suggests that such centers are both strengths and vulnerabilities. 41 This dual nature of COGs  has implications for campaign planning , particularly in terms of identifying which force—ground, sea, or air—is key. As Warden  noted, “Air must be the key force when ground  or sea forces  are incapable of doing the job because of insufficient numbers or inability to reach the enemy center of gravity .”42 Airpower’s ubiquity theoretically makes many more strategic COGs  vulnerable to attack relative to surface forces , providing air forces with a higher degree of strategic decisiveness. 43 Although it stresses the importance of correctly identifying and appropriately striking COGs , The Air Campaign  does not elaborate on how to go about doing so. Warden ’s process of identifying COGs  materialized some years after publication of his first work. While working at the Pentagon , Warden recognized the need for a coherent theory of airpower. Having searched for some organizing scheme appropriate to the concept of COGs  as related to airpower, in the late fall of 1988, he developed such a model in the form of five concentric rings—an air force targeting bull’s-eye of sorts (fig.3). Analyzing the enemy as a system, Warden  contends that one can break down all strategic entities into five component parts. 44 The most crucial element of the system—the innermost ring—is leadership. Extending outward from the center, in descending importance to the overall functioning of th