ibutes characteristic of a successful fighter . At the same time, de Seversky  called for increased armament on fighter  planes. Whereas standard equipment generally consisted of two .30-caliber machine guns, he advocated the inclusion of six to eight .50-caliber guns.16 However, when de Seversky  suggested this, as well as increasing range by adding more wing fuel tanks, the Air Corps  turned him down, deeming such innovations not “sufficiently attractive to pursue.” 17 This clash of opinion was doctrinal at least as much as it was technological. American tactical airmen such as Claire Chennault  eschewed the concept of fighter escort . Although acknowledging the vulnerability of bomber  aircraft, they did not relish an escort mission that would put fighter aircraft  in what they saw as an inherently defensive and passive position. Most Air Corps fighter pilots at the time shared this rather peculiar notion. Not until 1944 did American airmen, because of operational necessity, embrace the mission of fighter escort, reconciling need with the imperative to maintain an offensive and aggressive character. 18 In any event, this doctri nal disagree- ment had serious consequences for the relationship between de Seversky  and the Air Corps , already strained by his emotional and flamboyant personality. His heroic exploits in the war were well known, as was his prowess as a stunt pilot. His wife, the beautiful Evelyn Olliphant, was the daughter of a prominent New Orleans doctor, and she also became a well-known figure. After their marriage in 1925, she met many of the famous aviation figures of the day. Too often, however, she felt at a loss whenTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 244  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 271 --- the men congregated in corners to discuss flying. She therefore decided to take flying lessons and surprise her husband; after she won her wings in 1934, her first passenger was Jimmy Doolittle . Evelyn  became a noted aviatrix in her own right, logging seve