ional split within NATO . The US Army , reacting to lessons learned in the Vietnam War and the 1973 Yom Kippur War  as well as an analysis of emerging Warsaw Pact  capabilities and doctrinal changes, 66 started to focus its doctrinal development on attacking enemy forces well before they entered the close-combat arena. Furthermore, it examined the utility of counteroffensive operations to defeat a numerically superior foe. All this resulted in AirLand Battle  doctrine—not necessarily well received by NATO . Specifically, many NATO  members mistook the doctrine—an operational  concept—for a strategic  initiative, believing that, as a defensive alliance, NATO  should not advocate offensive operations into Warsaw Pact  territory. Further, the doctrine  relied on emerging—primarily US—technologies  that many NATO  countries believed they could ill afford, especially at a time when NATO  was attempting to upgrade its main defensive forces. 67 Also, many NATO  air force members saw AirLand Battle  as an attempt to gain control over air resources. The doctrine stressed shaping enemy forces through deep attack , thereby implying ground-commander  control over deep-attack assets that were primarily air assets. 68 Further, AirLand Battle  focused on the corps as the operational maneuver force, an emphasis that went against an air perspective—particularly that of the USAF —that stressed theaterwide air employment. Since 1979, however, NATO  had entertained an initiative involving the attack of Warsaw Pact  second-echelon forces before they entered the main defensive belt. This initiative, formally announced by Gen Bernard Rogers , SACEUR , in 1983 and incorporated into ATP-35(A), Land Force Doctrine,  in 1985, 69 was known as FOFA . Like others, it met a contentious reception within NATO . In one sense, FOFA  was merely an extension of the long-standing NATO  doctrine of AI .70 However, two of its implications disturbed many NATO members. First, FOFA  implied early border-cros