he War of 19—,” the air battle  lasts a mere three hours.) A tension in war has always existed between the strategies of annihilation  and attrition . The latter definitely characterized land warfare  in World War I . Airpower has promised annihilation  but generally provided attrition . Although Douhet  stated that airpower would eliminate the counterforce battle , it was still necessary in World War II —butMEILINGER 23  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 52 --- the trenches had moved to 20,000 feet. Nearly 80,000 Royal Air Force (RAF)  crew members and a like number of Americans were lost in the air battle  over Germany . Indeed, that battle revealed that meeting the Luftwaffe  in the air was wiser than attacking the German aircraft  and engine factories. In effect, Allied bombers  became the bait that brought the Luftwaffe ’s planes—and pilots—into the air, where they could be destroyed. One reason Douhet  discounted the air battle was that few had occurred on a major scale in the Italo- Austrian front during the war. Possibly, Douhet  ignored the air battle  because admitting its likelihood would contradict one of his main tenets—that airpower eliminated the counterforce battle . Towards the end of his life, he began to modify these views. In “The War of 19—,” the German battle planes  suffer horrendous losses— 100 percent of the attacking force is shot down by enemy pursuit in the initial waves—but succeeding waves press on and ultimately achieve victory. 54 In other words, Douhet conceded that defense was possible, at least tactically. Certainly, a fuller exploration of the distinction between tactical and strategic air superiority  and ways of achieving such superiority would have been useful. The Battle of Britain  refuted Douhet ’s premise that the weaker air force must assume an ever more violent offense because defense is futile. In that battle, radar stripped away the airplane’s surprise. One would do well to remember, however, that this battle o