lation centers, suggesting targets  of a military nature only. Yet, it repeated the decade-old adage that victory in war resulted from the collapse of civilian morale . How could one break the will  of the people without bombing them? The formulation supplied by the Air Staff writers asserted that the bombing  of industrial centers would destroy the factories that employed the workers. Loss of work would have a shattering effect on the work force—presumably due to dislocation and loss of salary—that would cascade throughout society. 37 Through this interesting though questionable logic, AP 1300 clearly advocated a strategy fundamentally different than that proposed by theorists such as Douhet , who deliberately targeted  the population. Although both formulations sought a collapse of morale  that would lead to a change in government policy, the methods of achieving that collapse differed, subtly though clearly. Unquestionably, the RAF  was sensitive about the issue of targeting morale . People outside the service did not understand the nuances of bombing theory  noted above, and the RAF frequently had to defend itself against charges of making war on women and children. Because air control  operations in the Middle East  were especially misconstrued as bloody and remorseless attacks against defenseless natives, the RAF produced studies showing that far fewer people died, on both sides, in air operations  than in traditional pacification efforts carried out by ground troops . For example, an examination of colonial campaigns between 1897 and 1923 indicates that over five thousand British soldiers lost their lives at a cost of nearly eight hundred tribesmen. Since the arrival of the RAF , however, friendly casualties numbered a mere dozen men, while native losses hovered between 30 and 40 killed. Moreover, one report illustrated the point by quoting from a 1920 British army directive to its troops in Mesopotamia : “Villages will be razed to the ground and all woodwork