hies of war on his own thoughts, an impact most evident in his emphasis on the temporal dimension of war—specifically, in his incorporation of the notion of time as a weapon. Yet, Boyd  fails to fully appreciate this weapon in the context of Taoism’s yin and yang. The “duality of opposites” suggests—and twentieth-century revolutionary warfare supports—the conclusion that time can be a most potent force in either its contracted or its protracted forms. Throughout his retirement, Boyd  has briefed his “Discourse on Winning and Losing” to hundreds of audiences in both civilian and military circles, leaving copies behind to assure a degree of permanence for his ideas. Interestingly, one of the agencies he talked to several times in the early 1980s was the newly formed Checkmate Division  within the Air Staff at the Pentagon . This division’s responsibilities include short- and long-range contingency planning for the employment of the United States Air Force . Eventually, this division would have as its chief our second modern-day theorist of strategic paralysis .38 John Warden  has emerged as a leading advocate of force application in the third dimension. Credited as the originatorTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 370  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 395 --- of the air campaign  that guided allied efforts during Operation Desert Storm , Warden  has a vision of twenty-first-century warfare that unabashedly asserts the dominance of aerospace power over surface force . Furthermore, in concert with the “Long Blue Line” of American air theorists, he contends that the most effective and efficient application of airpower lies in the strategic realm. However, unlike the strategic air warfare of his predecessors, particularly those at the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS) , Warden ’s is more political than economic in nature. Targeting  enemy leadership to produce desired policy changes is the overarching aim that should guide the employment of air forces. In this respect, Warden ac