nam  with the carrot of concessions as much as he imposed it with the stick of airpower. 4 In sum, Vietnam  provided rather uncertain grist for the Air Force  doctrinal mill. Before examining the development of Army  and Air Force doctrine in the period following the Vietnam War , one should note that the two institutions have divergent perspectives about the nature and purpose of doctrine  itself. In its military guise, doctrine  forms the essential link between theory  and practice. It remains, in essence, a medium of transmission in which general ideas about the nature, purpose, and employment of violence in service of the state (theoretical propositions) receive sanctioned, practical expression peculiar to the time and setting of the military institution promulgating the doctrine  of a particular era. As such, doctrine  always involves both thought and action. 5 But the Air Force emphasizes the cerebral component of doctrine , while the Army  concentrates upon the musculature. The Air Force ’s propensity to emphasize the conceptual component of doctrine is clearly evident in the statement attributed to Gen Curtis E. LeMay , which appeared inside the front cover of the 1984 edition of Air Force Manual (AFM) 1-1, Basic Aerospace Doctrine of the United States Air Force:  “At the very heart of warfare lies doctrine . It represents the central beliefs for waging war in order to achieve victory. Doctrine  is of the mind, a network of faith and knowledge reinforced by experience,WINTON 403  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 428 --- which lays the pattern for the utilization of men, equipment, and tactics.” 6 The Army view of doctrine  seems much more practical. Chapter 3, “How to Fight,” of the 1976 edition of Field Manual (FM) 100-5, Operations,  meant exactly what it said. This does not imply that the Air Force’s doctrine  has no active component or that the Army ’s has no theoretical content. Each is clearly a mix of both. Two distinct institutional prefere