Mitchell and his followers. The aviators were satisfied, at least to some extent, with the foundation of the Bureau of Aeronautics  in 1921. Some of the senior officers of the Navy  had opposed the congressional proposal for the bureau, but in large part the heat generated by Mitchell  changed their minds. 36 Its first chief, Rear Adm William Moffett , was not a pilot, but he went immediately to Pensacola, Florida, and completed the observers’ course there. Popular among the flyers, he was also a successful battleship  commander; had served once on a ship whose skipper was Mahan  himself, as noted above; and had attended the Naval War College  while Mahan  was assigned there.37 From the outset, under Moffett ’s guidance, the appearance of a new bureau—in fact, a superbureau—complicated the internal organization of airpower. Moffett  did not confine his activities to technical and procurement functions, as did the other bureau chiefs. He cast a wider net—including personnel issues such as assignment policy and promotions for aviators. This brought him into conflict with the other bureaus— especially with the Bureau of Navigation , which had traditionally managed personnel policy for all naval officers. This tension continued, growing all the way up through and beyond the tenure of Rear Adm John Towers  at the helm of the Bureau of Aeronautics  well into World War II .38 From the earliest days, military men in all the services began groping for a way to properly integrate aviation into the national security  force structure. As it turned out, the Army flyers would choose a more or less independent path that resulted in the creation of the US Air Force  in 1947. The Navy ’s flyers and almost all of its sailors favored integrating airpower with sea power . One such sailor, Rear Adm Nathan C. Twining , wrote to Capt Henry Mustin  in 1919, stating tentatively that he felt airpower should be kept in the ArmyTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 124  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Pag