r attack . Because only aircraft could defeat other aircraft, the defensive solution was self-evident. “Airplane carriers ,” as he called them, were the means to provide a moveable cloak of air superiority over the fleet. Once carrier aircraft  won “command of the air,” they could then be used to attack enemy vessels. He speculated that this climactic air battle  would occur as much as two hundred miles from the floating bases, “where hostile gun fire would play no part whatsoever, and where [our] own navy would run no risk.” 42 Mitchell  maintained this stance for several years, even arguing at his court-martial in 1925 that the Navy  should build carriers  that were large enough to carry one hundred bombers  or one hundred pursuit aircraft . His published articles reiterated this suggestion, even hailing the building of the carriers  Lexington  and Saratoga  as a step forward for naval aviation. 43 This attitude soon changed. By 1928 Mitchell  had completely turned his back on airplane carriers , now seeing them as little more than expensive floating targets, “so vulnerable that even a small bomb will put them out of business.” In fact, the carrier  was not only helpless, it was actually harmful because it gave an illusion of progress where none actually existed: “The Naval Airplane Carrier is merely an EXPENSIVE AND USELESS LUXURY used principally as propaganda by the Naval Services to cover up the fact that they have NO adequate defense against aircraft” (emphasis in original), he argued in 1928. 44 Two years later, Mitchell  derided the carriers  as merely a “delusion” of the “Navyists” who were attempting to save their service with outmoded schemes. 45 Why the change of heart? In part, Mitchell had decided that the solution to the air defense  of the fleet rested with airships . With an optimism that was totally unfounded, he envisionedCLODFELTER 93  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 122 --- dirigibles  as capable of traveling thousands of miles, in a