l responsibilities as air defense commander (ADC)  and airspace control authority (ACA) .94 This “trihatted” approach precisely mirrors US joint doctrine  and USAF doctrine . AJP-1(A) also includes a chapter on command and control warfare (C 2W)—a rapidly developing area of US doctrine. One must still resolve the issue of whether these concepts will continue to filter down to other NATO  doctrinal publications. For example, the proposed change three to ATP-33(B) does not list strategic attack  as an air operation against enemy surface assets, retaining instead the classic missions of AI  and OAS , the latter still including CAS  and BAI .MCCRABB 465  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 489 --- However, the proposed section on C 2 of tactical air forces, while not specifically mentioning a JFACC , does include a discussion of centralized C 2 and decentralized tactical execution not in conflict with US doctrine. Specifically, it states that “unity of effort is best achieved when authority for command and control  of the air effort is established at the highest practicable levels under a designated commander while ensuring tactical control is passed down to the level necessary to provide timely, flexible response to battlefield initiative.” It further argues that “centralized control  is achieved through a designated air commander  who directs the total air effort by exercising operational control  of tactical air forces assigned or attached.” 95 Finally, the pamphlet does not preclude strategic attack  as an air operation . It specifically defines interdiction , for example, as air operations  “conducted to destroy, neutralize, or delay the enemy’s military potential before it can be brought to bear effectively against friendly forces” but delimits “the enemy’s military potential” to “those forces  not engaged in close combat, his supplies . . . and the means by which these unengaged forces and supplies are moved” (emphasis added). 96 In contrast, Meyer  define