uture possibilities of airpower (i.e., bombardment). As a result, the first filigrees of a new doctrine  appeared in the 1925–26 Combined Air Force Course  and its text, Employment of Combined Air Force . Whoever wrote the 1925–26 text remains a mystery, but the fingerprints of Milling  and Sherman  are all over it. The text provided a series of working propositions that served as the foundation for the theoretical work done by the Bomber Mafia during phase two of the Tactical  School’s doctrinal development (1927–34). In particular, the Combined Air Force text codified five crucial propositions of air warfare  for Army airmen. First, the ultimate goal of any air attack  is “to undermine the enemy’s morale [or] his will to resist.”128 Second, airmen can best destroy morale  by attacking the interior of an opponent’s territory. Attacks against vital points or centers  will not only terrorize populations into submission but also save lives. (In M-day warfare, there is no need for battles of attrition  or annihilation .) Third, airpower is an inherently offensive weapon that is impossible, in absolute terms, to stop. Fourth, since airpower is the only military tool that can hit distant centers of concentration and sources of supply and since it is the only tool that can undermine national morale  with minimum effort and materiel, combatants should use it extensively in strategic operations. Strategic targets , after all, are almost always more important than tactical targets . Last, “In any scheme of strategical operations the object is to cause complete destruction or permanent and irreparable damage to the enemy which will have a decisive effect.” 129 In other words, one must completely neutralize one target set before moving on to another. Attacking in driblets against multiple targets will not yieldFABER 215  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 242 --- significant results in the shortest possible time. Decisive attacks, in contrast, will spur the collapse of