lizing that war was too important to be left to scholars, the “generals” began to reassert themselves. In the American Air Force, this trend began with John Boyd, a semilegendary cult figure in the fighter community. Boyd had flown F-86s in the Korean War and was struck by the 10-to-one kill ratio that US aircraft had enjoyed in combat with the Soviet-built MiG-15. The smaller, quicker, and more maneuverable MiG should have performed better. Although most observers attributed the Sabre’s  advantage to the superior quality of American pilots, Boyd thought otherwise. He theorized that the hydraulic flight controls of the F-86 were the key factor, because they allowed the pilot to move from one attitude to another more quickly than his MiG counterpart. Upon returning to the Fighter Weapons School, Boyd continued to study what he termed “fast transient maneuvers,” a concept that evolved into his famous OODA Loop. Battle was governed by the continual cycle of observing, orienting, deciding, and acting. Pilots who were able to outthink their opponents—to get inside their OODA Loop—would be successful, just as the Sabre could physically maneuver inside the MiG’s decision cycle. More importantly, Boyd hypothesized that the OODA Loop concept applied at the strategic level of war as well as the tactical. Countries that could plan, decide, and carry out military operations more rapidly than their xxiii  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 22 --- opponents would so disorient and confuse them that victory would become inevitable. At the same time, Boyd focused on the primacy of the “orient” portion of his loop, arguing that modern war demanded broad, interdisciplinary thinking that could continually extract ideas and fragments of ideas from diverse sources and then reconstruct them in new and original ways. This process of “destruction and creation” lay at the heart of “orienting” oneself in an increasingly complex world. These theories and their implications for a rapid,