pid,THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 104  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 133 --- and cocksure, Mitchell  appealed to New Era America. His message, though, struck an uncertain chord. His argument that bombers  could now defend the nation more efficiently than battleships  seemed to make sense, as did his assertion that bombers  could defeat an enemy without the need for a ground invasion. Yet, questions remained. Defend against whom?  Whom  would airpower defeat? The Morrow Board ’s conclusion, “We do not consider . . . that air power . . . has yet demonstrated its value— certainly not in a country situated as ours —for independent operations of such a character as to justify the organization of a separate department” (emphasis added),  reflected the key concerns held by the bulk of the American populace regarding Mitchell ’s ideas. 85 In 1925 the public realized that no enemy threatened the United States  and that airplanes could not yet routinely cross the Atlantic or Pacific Oceans. The mood would endure for more than a decade. The failure of the American public to respond directly to Mitchell ’s outcry did not mean that the issue of air autonomy disappeared, but it did mean that the steps taken during the interwar years would be incremental. National boards and committees continued to study the issue of how best to organize Army aviation . The Air Corps Act  of July 1926 changed the Air Service ’s name to the Air Corps  and provided an assistant secretary of war for air and special representation on the War Department ’s General Staff. It also authorized an Air Corps  of 20,000 men and eighteen hundred aircraft, but Congress  failed to fund the expansion. The Great Depression  further slowed Air Corps  growth. From 1927 to 1931, Air Corps  annual budgets ranged from $25–30 million; in 1934 appropriations fell to $12 million for the year; in 1938 to $3.5 million. 86 Manpower, which averaged fifteen hundred officers and 15,000 enlisted men during the first three Dep