” 57 Yet, Mitchell neglected to say whether “surrender” would occur because the government of the battered nation was sympathetic to the plight of its people, because it feared overthrow by an irate populace, or because it had in fact been displaced by a new regime demanding peace. In many of his futuristic examples, he depicted the United States  as the country undergoing air attack , so the presumption was that surrender would stem from a sympathetic government. Mitchell  claimed that America ’s “strategical heart” consisted of the manufacturing complexes within a triangle formed by Chicago, Boston, and the Chesapeake Bay, and that destroying those centers and their transportation links would not only wreck industrial productivity but also lead to widespread starvation if the nation chose not to capitulate. 58 In such projections,CLODFELTER 97  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 126 --- war-making capability ceased once bombs destroyed vital industries and agricultural areas, or once civilians left the factories and fields. Mitchell  dismissed stockpiles of materiel, especially food, 59 and he also rejected reserves of morale . He bestowed on the governments under attack a degree of rationality that ignored the war aims of the enemy and the possibility that the population would willingly suffer to avoid capitulation. His examples intimated that all industrial powers were alike—and that all resembled his view of the United States . He thus overlooked crucial distinctions between nations—and the types of wars they fought—that would directly affect bombing’s ability to achieve a rapid victory. For Mitchell , the key prerequisite for achieving victory through airpower was to win control of the sky. In his first book, he stated that neither navies nor armies could operate effectively “until the air forces have first obtained a decision against the opposing air force.” He was convinced that the first battles of a future war would be air battles  and that the nat