iliary aviation ” (pursuit or attack aircraft). His ideas on this subject grew more radical over time. In the first edition of The Command of the Air  (1921), he recognized the utility of auxiliary aviation . However, in the second edition (1927), Douhet  went much further, stating that he had been deliberately mild in his earlier edition so as not to cause too much consternation, but now he had to be completely honest. He maintained that, in truth, auxiliary aviation was “useless, superfluous and harmful” 32 and was merely a collection of airplanes—it was not airpower. Convinced that an army or navy without control of the air above it was an army or navy about to be destroyed, he termed command of the air essential— the key strategic objective. After achieving command of the air, aircraft could assist in any tactical  operations still in progress on the surface. But diverting assets from the strategic  air battle to support surface operations was folly. If one lost command of the air, one lost the war, regardless of the situation on the surface. One must remember that Douhet  was formulating a theory of war applicable to Italy —a country of modest resources, powerful neighbors, and mountainous northern borders. 33 He believed it relatively easy to defend the mountain passes—as indeed Austria  had done in the Great War . Certainly, auxiliary aviation would prove useful in that defense, but to what end? Victory on the surface was prohibitively expensive, if not impossible. Italy  would do well to hold on the ground and attack in the air. Douhet  admitted, however, that a countryMEILINGER 13  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 42 --- with great resources—such as the United States —could afford to build both a strategic  and an auxiliary  air force. 34 To implement his ideas, Douhet  called for an independent air force (IAF) . Airpower divorced from army and navy control was essential because it could not be the “Cinderella of the family,” dependent on the gene