ce during his court-martial  the following month was even worse. The trial began on 28 October with the prosecution reading into the record the statement Mitchell  had made to the press after the Shenandoah  crash. It was lengthier and far more vitriolic than the newspaper accounts had indicated. Nonetheless, Mitchell  pleaded not guilty. The heart of the trial focused on Mitchell ’s testimony and his cross-examination. Mitchell ’s attorney, Cong. Frank Reid , had been out of a courtroom for too long and was not inspiring. The prosecution, on the other hand, was most impressive. Maj Allen Gullion  began his attack by taking Mitchell ’s statement apart, line by line. Although Mitchell  had openly criticized the Navy  for its handling of aviation matters, as well as its wasteful emphasis on the surface fleet , Gullion ’s questioning made it clear that Mitchell  knew very little about naval technology , organization, doctrine, or tactics. For example, though claiming expertise in airship  design—after all, his comments on the Shenandoah  crash had precipitated the entire crisis—Mitchell  admitted he had never flown on an airship  and had seen them up close only on a handful ofCLODFELTER 103  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 132 --- occasions. Finally, under incessant pressure, Mitchell  was even forced to concede that his lengthy diatribe to the press contained “no facts at all”—only opinions. Sarcastically, Gullion  commented that it was necessary to distinguish between “opinion and imagination” and led Mitchell  through a series of questions regarding Air Service  accident rates, flying hours, equipment costs, and training requirements, most of which the defendant was unable to answer. Yet, Mitchell  had claimed that airpower was in disastrous straits. Where were the facts to substantiate the charges of treason and incompetence? Overall, it was a dismal performance. 80 Mitchell  had obtained the forum he sought, but the results were certainly not what he ha