stray from Army  orthodoxy. They agreed that workable principles of strategic airpower  were still few and far between and that pursuit aviation , since it was responsible for the necessary first step of air supremacy , remained the arm of the Air Service . Yet, during phase one of the Tactical School ’s existence (1922–26), two major things happened. First, and through the intercession of two forward-looking faculty members, the fighter  lost pride of place to the bomber  in the school’s curriculum. Second, these same airmen developed a series of working propositions that served as the bedrock of future theoretical thought. Milling  and Sherman  promoted the future importance of air bombardment and codified the foundational principles of American airpower. As already mentioned, they had worked for Billy Mitchell  in World War I  and in the postwar Air Service Training and Operations Group . In both cases, Milling  and Sherman  stimulated each other’s thinking and began to develop the foundations of future Air Force doctrine .127 They then took their pro-Mitchell  ideas to ASFOS /ASTS , where Milling  worked from 1920 to 1925 and Sherman  worked twice, from 1920 to 1923 and intermittently from 1923 to 1925.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 214  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 241 --- (During the same years, the school employed an average of six instructors a year.) Although Milling , Sherman , and their colleagues did not develop a full theory of airpower, they did do one truly critical thing. They established the Combined Air Force Course  (later known simply as the Air Force Course ) as the most important offering at the Tactical School . The course did not kowtow to Army  directives, and it was the one place where heretical airmen could present radical ideas about the future possibilities of airpower (i.e., bombardment). As a result, the first filigrees of a new doctrine  appeared in the 1925–26 Combined Air Force Course  and its text, Employment of Combined Air For