ategy of flexible response . As NATO began exploring a more robust conventional deterrent and war-fighting strategy, the requirement for NATO ’s ground, air, and naval forces to work together effectively in a joint and combined environment  became more insistent, renderingMCCRABB 451  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 475 --- essentially national doctrines untenable. 39 The Air Board of the MAS  took two actions over the next several years. First, it established working parties (e.g., the TAWP ) to draft the doctrine and procedures, which initially involved identifying agencies within each member nation to represent national positions during the negotiations. For the United States , this responsibility fell to the Doctrine Division of the USAF’s Air Staff. 40 Second, the MAS  Air Board requested SACLANT ’s input following the latter’s objections that drafts coming out of the working party failed to include practices of the naval air arm. The document that would become Allied Tactical Pamphlet 33 (ATP-33), Tactical Air Doctrine,  took form through a series of working party meetings and drafts from November 1970 until its release on 11 March 1976. One should note three points about the development of this seminal document of NATO air doctrine . First, the initial US working party included only USAF  members, which prompted the US Navy  to get the development process out of USAF  hands and into those of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . Although the effort proved unsuccessful, the US Navy , Army , and Marine Corps  soon joined the development and coordination process. Second, the development of ATP-33 brought to the fore the differences of opinion on C 2 of air assets, both among NATO  member nations and within the US military. As David Stein  points out, the USAF  and Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE)  wanted centralization of control functions  at the highest practicable level of command, while the US Navy , US Marine Corps , and the United Kingdom