t of Delbruck ’s typology, to further refine our concept by demonstrating what strategic paralysis  is not. In a truly seminal work with a distinct Clausewitzian  flavor, Delbruck presents a comprehensive History of the Art of War within the Framework of Political History . In it, he addresses two traditional strategies  of combat—annihilation  and attrition . The strategy of annihilation  aims to destroy enemy armed forces, whereas the strategy of attrition  seeks to exhaust them. Unfortunately, as Delbruck  himself feared, the majority of his readers misconstrued these as the strategy of the strong (i.e., quantitatively superior) and of the weak, respectively. Delbruck  coins the term Ermattungs-Strategie  (strategy of attrition ) as an opposite to Carl von Clausewitz ’s Niederwerfungs-Strategie  (strategy of annihilation ) but confesses that “the expression has the weakness of coming close to the misconception of a pure maneuver strategy .”8 Since by definition, annihilation strategy  always seeks destruction of enemy armed forces through decisive battle, he worries that people will misinterpret his notion of attrition strategy  as the constant avoidance of battle through maneuver . To clarify, Delbruck  further defines the strategy of attrition  as “double-poled strategy,” one pole being battle  and the other maneuver . A military commander employing an attrition strategy  would continually shift between battle and maneuver, favoring one pole over the other as circumstances dictate. 9 Thus, while strategies of annihilation  produce rapid decisions through overwhelming defeat of enemy armed forces, strategies of attrition  produce more drawn-out affairs capped by the slow but steady softening of the enemy’s will .10 In contrast, strategic paralysis  is a strategy neither of annihilation  nor attrition  but a third type of warfare. It does not seek rapid decision via destruction of enemy armed forces in battle. Likewise, it does not seek drawn-out decision via exh