mplete commonality has not been possible, the technological relationship between civil  and military aircraft  has always been close because scientific advances often benefit both sectors. During the 1930s, commercial designs like the Boeing 247 , Lockheed “Vega,” and Douglas DC-3 led military aircraft development. Even today, it is no coincidence that Boeing and Lockheed airliners closely resemble Air Force tankers  and cargo  aircraft. Even so, the increasing complexity demanded of military  aircraft is making this decades-old technological marriage tenuous. Finally, Douhet  expected civil aviation to establish an “airmindedness ” among the population. Not only must a pool of pilots and aircraft mechanics be trained for war, but events like air shows and demonstration flights would educate people to the importance of aviation and the economic, social, and military benefits it could bestow. The people must think of themselves as an airpower nation. In evaluating the writings of Douhet , one must note the existence of three incarnations of the theorist who wrote about airpower over a 20-year period. The first was a relatively young man, fascinated by machines and gadgets, who witnessed heavier-than-air flight in 1908 and began dreaming about its possibilities. Over the next four years, he sketched an outline of the importance of aircraft and ways for using them in war. By the time Italy  had entered World War I , Douhet  had already decided upon the basic thrust of this theory: war had become total and stagnated, and airpower would provide the antidote. It would do this by taking the offensive at the outset of war and by bombing the enemy country’s vital centers . The world war merely provided more detail and specificity to his theories. The stalemate and horror of land warfare was even worse than he—or anyone else—had imagined. The few and fairly weak attempts at strategic bombing seemed to provide disproportionately large results. Douhet  therefore expanded upon h