e defense department, he envisioned that surface forces  would have degenerated into impotence— merely serving to guard Italy ’s mountain passes and harbors. Douhet ’s thinking therefore became dangerously one- dimensional. Finally, he failed to see the importance of history—of looking to the past to illuminate the present. In this regard, he was in the same position as the nuclear theorists  following World War II . Because little empirical evidence existed uponMEILINGER 29  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 58 --- which to base a model of how one could use nuclear weapons in war, their theories became intellectual exercises that relied on the force of logic. Similarly, Douhet  chose to ignore what little evidence did exist from World War I : “The experience of the past is of no value at all. On the contrary, it has a negative value since it tends to mislead us.” 66 He took this position not because he believed that history was useless, but because it provided the wrong lessons for airpower. Paradoxically, however, at the same time he denigrated the lessons of the Great War , he built a theory of airpower based on that war’s repeating itself. The result was a curious mixture of past and future, with no apparent anchor in either dimension. Using World War II  as a test of Douhet ’s theories, most critics found them wanting. Detractors noted that the war proved him wrong on many counts: the land war  did not stagnate; a prolonged and deadly air battle  was necessary to gain command of the air; civilian morale  did not collapse; no one employed aerochemical  bombs; and auxiliary aviation (tactical airpower ) proved enormously valuable. Defenders of Douhet  see a different picture: command of the air did in fact mean the difference between victory and defeat; the German and Japanese war economies were devastated; and although not destroyed, civilian morale  was severely damaged by bombardment. Moreover, advocates maintain that Douhet ’s theories were never giv