om the allies. See David C. Morrison, “Beyond NATO,” National Journal,  23 February 1991, 452–54. An interesting question undergoing debate within NATO is, Precisely what is “out-of-area”? Is not Europe (hence the Balkans) within NATO’s “area”? What of the southern rim of the Mediterranean, which is arguably contiguous with NATO’s area? Finally, what of the Middle East, with its rich oil reserves upon which most European countries depend (much more so than the United States)? 75. Thomas-Durell Young, The “Normalization” of the Federal Republic of Germany’s Defense Structures  (Carlisle, Pa.: US Army War College Strategic Studies Institute, 1992). 76. In reformulating their strategy (discussed below), NATO politicians and planners recognized that NATO must forge closer links with the WEU and the Organization for Cooperation and Security in Europe (OCSE). Thomas-Durell Young argues that such cooperation will provide a means for NATO members to coordinate on out-of-area operations without appearing to establish a situation in which member states might feel “trapped” in other members’ “adventures” outside of NATO’s traditional areas of concern. See his “Preparing the Western Alliance for the Next Out-of-Area Campaign,” Naval War College Review  45 (Summer 1992): 28–44. 77. For a full discussion, see Jonathan T. Howe, “NATO and the Gulf Crisis,” Survival  33 (May/June 1991): 246–59. At the time, Admiral Howe was commander in chief of allied forces in NATO’s Southern Region (which includes Turkey and the Mediterranean); thus, he had operational command over Southern Guard (NATO’s response to the crisis) and its two military measures—Dawn Set (in southeastern Turkey) and MedNet (in the Mediterranean). Dawn Set included Operation Ace  Guard, which involved the deployment of the Allied Command Europe, Mobile Force (AMF)-Air and Patriot missiles to Turkey (see below). 78. North Atlantic Council, Statement on the Gulf, 18 December 1990, par. 5. Article 5 of the treaty states t