ow BAI .87 This doctrine  also provided forTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 422  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 447 --- joint BAI  and CAS  in a category known as offensive air support (OAS) .88 Reflecting the British preference for the nexus of air-ground operations  at the army group/ATAF level rather than at the AFCENT /AAFCE  level, once the apportion- ment  decision was made, OAS  sorties were allocated  to the ATAF commanders. Furthermore, because the ATAF had responsibility for supporting an army group, the latter’s commanders had significant influence in determining how the OAS  sorties were suballocated among the corps under their command. On the whole, the US Army  was quite satisfied with this arrangement. The CENTAG  commander had to trade off proximity to his fighting corps for proximity to his supporting air commander in choosing his command location. But the OAS  = BAI  + CAS  formulation gave him sufficient influence over air operations  to prosecute the major land operations  he had to execute under the rubric of the theater campaign plan. Although this arrangement did not provide subordinate corps commanders the amount of influence over air operations  they felt they required to deal with Soviet second-echelon formations, it did give them access to an Army  commander in the person of COMCENTAG, to whom they could make their case for priority of both  BAI  and CAS  sorties. The USAF , however, remained much more ambivalent about BAI . Although the constraints of allied diplomacy had obliged senior American airmen to accept it as NATO doctrine , they were reluctant to incorporate into US doctrine any provisions for ground commanders  to influence air interdiction . An unprecedented “20-star” conference held at TRADOC  in October 1979 reviewed a number of air-ground issues, including the BAI  question. Attendees at this meeting included Generals Meyer , Lew Allen , Starry , and Creech , as well as Gen John W. Vessey  Jr., the Army  vice chief of staff,