n of the German army  in Germany , its government, and the crippling of its sources of supply.” Recognizing that he had insufficient forces to collapse the German industry, he nonetheless attempted to hit as many different factories as possible as often as possible, so that no one felt secure anywhere within range of his bombers . Using a subjective and unprovable statistic that earned him much (largely deserved) ridicule, Trenchard  stated that the psychological effects  of bombing outweighed the material effects at a ratio of 20 to one. 11 During its short life, the Independent Force flew all of its missions against targets with military significance. 12 Thus, one must understand that Trenchard  did not advocate the bombing  of German population centers with the intention of causing a popular revolt (the concept put forward by his contemporary in Italy , Gen Giulio Douhet ). Rather, Trenchard  implied that the act of bombardment in general—and the destruction of selected German factories in particular—would have a devastating effect on the morale  of the workers and, by extension, the German people as a whole. He had seen such effects in Britain as a result of German air attacks  and was profoundly influenced by them. He would articulate this concept more clearly in the years leading up to World War II . Some critics later argued that Trenchard ’s enthusiasm for strategic bombing  did not develop until after the war. Further, they maintained that during the war, he remained an implacable foe not only of strategic bombing but also of a separate RAF  and the Independent Force  that it spawned. These accusations are inaccurate. In October 1917 Trenchard proposed the combination of the RNAS  and the RFC  into a single service under an air secretary and an air chief of staff. The following month, he stated that “long distance bombi ng . . . ought to be vigorously developed as part and parcel of theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 46  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 75 --