strike first in a crisis, as discussed in more detail below) or other dispersed targets. Multiple warheads were also potentially useful for penetrating antimissile defenses since they would increase the number of objects the defender had to intercept. By the late 1970s, more than half of the US ICBM force and all of its SLBMs  were MIRVed . The latest development in strategic nuclear-delivery systems actually to have become operational is stealth technology , which makes aircraft difficult to detect by radar. Although stealth  has achieved its greatest prominence by enabling US  aircraft toTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 284  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 310 --- penetrate enemy air defenses  in order to launch conventional bombing  attacks, Northrop  developed the B-2  “Spirit” stealth bomber  as a penetrating nuclear bomber to attack targets, including mobile Soviet ICBMs , discussed further below. In addition to the major strategic systems—bombers , ICBMs , and SLBMs —a variety of other, shorter-range delivery systems were developed for tactical nuclear weapons —smaller warheads intended for use against enemy military forces on or near the battlefield. These included fighters  and attack aircraft , short-range missiles  and rockets, howitzers and other artillery pieces, atomic demolition munitions, cruise missiles , torpedoes, and depth charges. Cruise missiles  eventually became important strategic nuclear weapons , as their ranges and accuracies increased and their ability to fly low-altitude, terrain-following flight paths reduced their vulnerability to interception to a very low order. Strategic nuclear cruise missiles  were deployed on ground launchers, aircraft, surface ships, and submarines . Most tactical nuclear-delivery systems were dual-capable—that is, suitable for carrying either conventional  or nuclear  warheads. Still other nuclear-delivery systems have been planned or developed without being deployed. 18 Most notably, the Outer Space Treaty of 1