escort  for bombers because no one expected unescorted bombers  to get through. From the mid-1920s to the mid-1930s, the best known civilian commentator on airpower was Hans Ritter , formerly an airman and captain on the General Staff; he wrote numerous books and articles on airpower, many of which were translated into English. 83 Ritter ’s view of airpower included strategic bombing , which he emphasized as an important mission. Ritter , however, reflected the Air Staff’s view of airpower’s comprehensive nature, writing about all aspects of airpower, from naval aviation  to long-range bombing  to close air support  and including civil defense and flak as important aspects of airpower. In the late 1920s and early 1930s, under Chiefs of the Air Staff Hugo Sperrle , Helmuth Felmy , and Wilhelm Wimmer , the importance of the strategic bombing  concept reached its high point in German airpower theory . With the Nazi assumption of power in 1933 and rearmament assured, German airmen were prepared to make strategic bombing  a central part of the doctrine  of a reborn air force. Although he was not a pilot when he became the Luftwaffe ’s first chief of staff, Lt Gen Walter Wever  was well informed on airpower and an outspoken supporter of strategic air war .84 Among the first projects of the reborn air force was the creation of prototype,THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 172  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 200 --- long-range heavy bombers , which received strong support throughout the Air Staff. At this point, however, the Germans ran into a technological wall that affected their perception of the strategic air war . The prototype four-engined bombers  produced in the mid-1930s proved disappointing. German engine technology  was years away from the development of engines capable of providing the necessary range and performance. Faced with technological limitations, as well as the greater difficulty and cost of building large aircraft, the Germans gave the heavy bomber project