ecast advances in surface technology. Despite saying that everything in this world undergoes improvement, he foresaw no evolution in surface weapons and claimed that ground war had reached perpetual equilibrium. Thus, he ignored the development of tanks and armored doctrine, which played a major role in restoring mobility to the battlefield. Tanks, which were used by most of the major belligerents during the war and which underwent significant improvement in the decades that followed, are not even mentioned in The Command of the Air . Significantly, however, the French army  in “The War of 19—” does possess a strong tank contingent; but France  loses the war before they can ever be put to use. Obviously, Douhet  is making a point. The surface stalemate of the Great War  was certainly very real and had an enormous psychological impact on the people who fought in it, but one must ask what happened to the Giulio Douhet  who wrote so presciently concerning the potential of ground-force mechanization in his early career. A skeptic might ask whether such ideas would have undermined his theories regarding the primacy of airpower. 61 Also of note is the fact that Douhet  took pains to single out small-caliber machine guns as contributors to the trench stalemate of World War I . He did not mention the enormous and continually growing use of large-caliber artillery, which also played a major role in the stalemate. This is a curious omission, especially from an artillery officer. One possible explanation is that Douhet  was reluctant to call attention to a weapon whose explosive impact bore at least some resemblance to that of an aerial bomb. He did not want anyone to think of airpower as flying artillery . Douhet  also missed the mark on air defense . Despite the existence of a counter to air attack , he insisted that antiaircraft fire and interceptors were ineffective and would remain so. Moreover, Douhet  denied to defensive airpower  the same flexibility , speed, and abili