r that they remained firmly wedded to the theory of strategic attack  on an enemy’s vital centers  to produce victory. When planning for full-scale intervention by US airpower began, it focused on North Vietnam  rather than the struggle in the South . The original Air Force  plan called for a classic strategic bombing  campaign against the so-called 94-target list, designed, among other things, to destroy “North Vietnam ’s capacity to continue as an industrially viable state.” 40 Such was not to be, at least not to the degree that US airmen envisioned an aerial “blitzkrieg” against North Vietnam . Fears of escalation , Chinese intervention, and even nuclear confrontation with the Soviet Union  convinced the political leadership that a “slow squeeze” was more appropriate than aerial blitzkrieg. 41 This produced the “Rolling Thunder ” bombing campaign, which would last from early 1965 until the fall of 1968. During that time, US aircraft would attack all of the original 94 targets in a campaign controlled directly from the White House  and conducted more to send signals of strength and resolve to the North Vietnamese than to destroy North Vietnam  as “an industrially viable state.” Airmen chafed under the tight political controls, restrictions, and lengthy bombing pauses designed to entice the enemy to the negotiating table. Airmen argued that because of all the political restrictions and bombing pauses, the bombing  of the North  did not constitute a test of traditional airpower theory. Critics argued that a traditional strategic bombing  campaign was not appropriate. In their view, the situation lacked the major assumptions behind strategic bombing theory . The struggle was not a war to overthrow and destroy the North Vietnamese, and North Vietnam  was not a modern industrialized state. 42 Ironically, strategic bombing  advocates believed that their vindication lay in the two Linebacker  air campaigns  waged in 1972. In the first campaign, both strategic  and tactic