e sectors increased significantly. In this context, military doctrine  emphasizing a conventional option enhanced the role of the ground forces , again making them “a more integral and legitimate actor in the decision making  process.” 25 Gorbachev’s Era (1983–89).  The era of Mikhail Gorbachev saw perhaps the most sweeping changes in Soviet military doctrine. In the mid-1980s, perestroika  (restructuring) markedly accelerated changes in military doctrine , and emphasis on strategic defense, rather than preemptive conventional offense, marked the doctrine  emerging from this period. Many factors drove changes to this “defensive” doctrine . The inevitability of this change appears in the comments of Eduard Shevardnadze , then the Soviet foreign minister: The achievements of our foreign policy  would be much more impressive if we could assure greater internal stability. The numerous misfortunes that have befallen our country recently, the critical situation in the economy, the state of ethnic relations and natural calamities are reducing the chances of success in our foreign policy . The policy of reform thanks to which our country has restored its goodFELKER 491  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 515 --- name is undoubtedly giving rise in the world to a feeling of compassion and a desire and readiness to help us. But it should be frankly said that if our domestic troubles are multiplied by conservatism and ill will, intolerance and selfishness and clinging to dogmatic principles of the past, it will be more and more difficult for us to uphold the cause of peace, reduce tensions, fight for broader and irreversible disarmament , and integrate our country into the world system. That is why our diplomats are not living with their heads in the clouds. Their thoughts are turned to the harsh realities of our domestic life. 26 Military planners  and politicians firmly believed that nuclear escalation  would destroy the Soviet state. They saw that their previous pree