ificant but not decisive. Aircraft forced submarines  to remain submerged and, by closing the Strait of Dover , imposed the long trip around Scotland  on them. The consequent reduction of the time on station lowered the number of U-boats  in the German navy .17 At the end of the war, Britain ’s Royal Navy  did possess three aircraft carriers , but the US Navy  had none. The brief American participation and the preoccupation of Europeans with the agony of the land war  left little time to do much development work in naval aviation  or to reach definitive conclusions. 18 Largely because of the institutional culture, aviation affected the thinking of the Navy  in an evolutionary, rather than a revolutionary, way. This statement does not suggest that the technology  of naval warfare  evolved on a steady, smooth curve—only that thought about the use of the Navy  as a whole to help achieve national objectives  changed in a gradual way, with neither long periods of stagnation nor obvious discontinuities. On the other hand, as suggested by Dr. Gary Weir , scientific and technological  innovation—dependent inMETS 119  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 148 --- part on sudden inspirations by inventors and scientists— probably can be characterized more as a sawtooth process with a generally progressive trend. 19 Certainly, the general outlook was not radical; yet, it is also probably fair to say that insofar as strategic thinking  was concerned, neither was it reactionary. The line officers of the Navy  may have been reluctant to shed the ideas proven in the past, but they had adjusted to the coming of steam and armor and (with the British navy ) had led the world in the development of modern gunnery and fire control. In part, external pressures forced the line officers of the Navy  to accept change. One factor was the Five Power Treaty of 1922, which drove the Navy  to embrace aircraft carriers more rapidly than it might otherwise have done. 20 A second was the implic