ilitary formed its own doctrinal ideas and passed them to the politicians for approval. More importantly, Rodionov ’s success in changing the doctrine  to a more provocative and revisionist view by carrying it from a defensive to an offensive posture, shows how far the politicization process may already have come. The Russian military is now a developer of doctrine — not just an implementer, as in the past. The emergence of an offensively structured doctrine  dramatically displays the commitment that Yeltsin  is willing to make to the military. Today, the pressing demands of military housing and social crisis within its forces preoccupy the Russian military. Force modernization, training, tactics, and other mission-related concerns remain on the back burner. Clearly, the new military doctrine  shows that the Russians became excessively impressed and concerned about the technological wizardry unleashed during Desert Storm . Preoccupied with looking outward, they neglected to look inward at the contributionFELKER 519  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 543 --- made by the former Soviet military to the collapse of the Soviet Union  and the Warsaw Pact . In essence, Russian military  doctrine lacks reality. Any analyst reading the new doctrine  must wonder whether the Russians learned any lesson at all from the collapse of the USSR , the Warsaw Pact , and the Russian economy. Even though the populace of the former Soviet Union  rejected the military’s perception of the requirements for defense, the Russian Federation  General Staff seems determined to continue chasing that chimera. At a time when Russians are seeking help from the West to stimulate their economy and social structure, one wonders about the Russian General Staff’s grasp of reality—namely, Russia ’s status in the world, the condition of the CIS , and the domestic situation. A close reading of the Russian Federation ’s draft military doctrine shows a clear danger of Russian military policy moving di