ity as the USAF defines it. Air planners  never foresaw gaining command of the air but focused more narrowly on achieving security against a Warsaw Pact  air attack  on NATO ’s ports and major lines of communications . Furthermore, air defense  remained largely a passive campaign, featuring DCA  patrols integrated with ground-based systems, albeit paying some attention to attacking Warsaw Pact  airfields. The second priority for NATO ’s air forces was attacking Warsaw Pact  second-echelon forces. The early years saw theseTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 468  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 492 --- attacks as heavily orchestrated with NATO ’s ground forces , but later years saw an evolution to FOFA , which gave air forces freedom to attack lucrative targets in order to shape the close battle. However, in all cases the strategy first called for attacks against Warsaw Pact  forces, mainly armor, and second, for strikes against countermobility targets, usually bridges. The third priority called for support of engaged ground forces . From the beginning, NATO  air strategists recognized the expense of this mission. But they also recognized that it might prove the most critical, especially in a short-warning attack scenario in which airpower might represent the only significant combat power available to NATO  commanders. Particularly after the adoption of flexible response  in 1967, the need to prevent a Warsaw Pact  breakthrough took on greater significance because of the ever-lurking presence of nuclear weapons . NATO strategists  truly wanted to take any measures necessary to avoid employing these weapons of mass destruction . Beyond purely moral reasons, they eventually realized that nuclear weapons  did not favor the side with smaller conventional forces. Had Warsaw Pact  forces accomplished a breakthrough, forcing NATO  to employ nuclear weapons , presumably the Warsaw Pact  would retaliate in kind. The result perhaps would have been an even quicker Warsaw Pact  victor