ecture, positing that space power  is merely an extension of airpower. Major DeBlois then sets out to demonstrate that the conjecture is false. The Air Force , he concludes, will eventually have to cut loose its child and create a separate Space Force .THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 596  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 620 --- Whether one accepts or rejects the author’s thesis depends upon one’s willingness to recognize his conjecture as the operative question. Certainly, the characteristics of the air and space realms pose drastic differences that will undoubtedly produce acute tensions in contests for funding between the two realms. But does it inexorably follow that such differences must lead to separate institutions? The continued existence of the Marine Corps  within the Navy  shows just how malleable the armed services can be in the face of logic to the contrary. As the Air Force  moves increasingly toward unmanned vehicles and as the Icarus Syndrome  weakens, will not the thrust for institutional survival virtually dictate a drive to retain space as an appropriate responsibility? What, then, do the foregoing chapters tell us about airpower theory? Much of what has been written on the subject is not, strictly speaking, airpower theory at all but descriptions of varied efforts to implement the then-current conception of such theory. Across the decades from the Wright brothers ’ first powered flight, theorists  have generally promised more than they can deliver. The frictions and uncertainties of war, described so well by Clausewitz , persist in emphasizing the distance between theory on the one hand and actual execution in war on the other. Even the advent of nuclear weapons , for all their destructive potential, has not brought complete fulfillment to theorists ’ claims. This has resulted not from any limitation on the awesome power of the weapons  but from the fear of comparable retaliation . What insights emerge from this survey of airpower thinkers? First a