lling upon their own aviation experience, and—most of all—relying on their own logic and imagination, unconstrained by temporary technological limitations. The RAF  thinker who emerges from the interwar years looking most prescient is Jack Slessor . His major study, though perhaps limited by external factors rather than his own beliefs, is the most balanced and judicious of all the treatises written about the new air weapon. The hope of air advocates that land  and sea forces  would play but a minor role in future war was, of course, not borne out, but Slessor barely hinted at that possibility. Instead, he presumed a major land war  with a Continental power. In such a scenario, airpower was, at best, primus inter pares. Given the adolescent state of British airpower , this vision of future war was quite realistic. Even so, Slessor  built his ideas on the shoulders of the man he respected and admired so deeply— Hugh Trenchard , the man who sustained his service in its bleak period after the Great War , presented a theory of strategic airpower  that identified enemy morale  as the key target, and then institutionalized those ideas through a series of doctrinal manuals. These precepts were subsequently taught and refined at another of Trenchard ’s creations—the RAF Staff College . Termed “the father of the RAF ,” Trenchard  deserved this title, not only administratively and organizationally but also philosophically. Notes 1. Interestingly, Lt John C. Slessor flew the first nighttime interception mission on 13 October 1915. He saw the zeppelin but never maneuveredTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 72  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 101 --- close enough to attack it. Marshal of the RAF Sir John Slessor, The Central Blue: Recollections and Reflections  (London: Cassell, 1956), 10–14. 2. The German navy lost 53 of 73 airships built during the war, and the army lost 26 of 52. Approximately 49 percent of all aircrews assigned to airships were lost during the war—the worst casua