ld survive. 51 Therefore, the Army League of the United States  chose as its motto, Let Us Be Safe Rather Than Sorry. But safe from what? One suggestion appeared in 1916, when preparedness advocate Alexander Graham  Bell worried that “we may . . . look forward with certainty to the time that is coming, and indeed is almost now at hand, when sea power  and land power  will be secondary to air power, and that nation which gains control of the air will practically control the world.” 52 To the great inventor, the reason for airpower’s newfound stature was the dirigible , which he envisioned dropping bombs on the world’s great cities with impunity. Billy Mitchell  agreed with Bell  but was less equivocal. He argued in one early Tactical School  text, Tactical Application of Military Aeronautics  (1919), that air forces, given their revolutionary technologies and capabilities, would not just lead to the subordination of navies but to their eventual extinction. More specifically, navies would not be necessary inFABER 195  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 222 --- wars of the future (i.e., M-day wars), in which belligerents might have enough aircraft to devastate their opponent’s centers of government, production, and military strength, and thus end armed conflicts almost before they began. 53 Charles Menoher , head of the Air Service  from 1919 to 1921, also stressed the probability of air-driven, M-day warfare to the Society of Automotive Engineers on 10 March 1920. To protect against a specific type of M-day scenario—a seaborne attack against the United States —Menoher  expected continental defense to involve three interrelated (and rapid) steps: long-range air reconnaissance  (against approaching aircraft and ships); an air superiority  battle between opposing pursuit aircraft ; and a rapid, devastating aerial attack against hostile fleets, in which battleships  would be as helpless as “the armored knight when the firearm was brought against him.” (In the last