in orbit or thrust-powered maneuver. Both modes differ drastically from maneuvering through the air. From the reference frame of the satellite , orbits are simply the right combination of lateral velocity and altitude that allow the Earth to move out from beneath the free-falling satellite . Thrust-powered maneuver from a fixed orbit position requires an incredible amount of thrust for altitude changes, as illustrated by the example above and by previous discussions of space lift . Lateral changes are permanent; that is, the atmosphere exerts no damping effects once the satellite  is in motion. A lateral move to a fixed distance in space requires thrust in the opposite direction to initiate the move—and an equal amount of thrust in the same direction to halt the move. The operating medium of space differs dramatically from the air realm. People cannot live in the medium and cannot “fly” in it. If humans are to realize the advantages offered by space, they must continue to develop technological solutions that accommodate them and their systems in that hostile environment. Those solutions, along with the nature of the environment, will dictate the need for unique operations and corresponding doctrine . The composition of the space realm bears absolutely no resemblance to the composition of the airDEBLOIS 553  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 577 --- realm. Composition  of the realm is  a characteristic advantage of airpower. Size of the Realm One may locate a conservative air-space boundary  at an altitude of 100 km, the point beyond which aerodynamic effects become negligible (see table 1). The volume of atmosphere encompassed by this boundary is roughly 5.18 x 1010 km3. Near Earth space, from the 100 km altitude out to geosynchronous earth orbit (GEO) , encompasses roughly 3.13 x 10 14 km 3—more than six thousand times the operating environment of the atmosphere. 50 As technology  advances and “near Earth” comes to encompass the Moon, the operating space e