rests with the spacecraft  and not the medium. 31 Although this situation imposes some limitations since no national borders protect space assets, it facilitates most operations. Unrestricted access to and overflight of every nation on Earth exist for space operations  but not for air operations , a situation that poses advantages for a nation with superior space power  andDEBLOIS 541  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 565 --- disadvantages for less capable space powers. International agreements supporting free rights to the space realm are a characteristic advantage of space power . Likelihood of Reduced Casualties Operation Desert Storm  evidenced at least two new facets of warfare: extensive media coverage, which brought the war into people’s living rooms, and unprecedented precision-strike capabilities. The combination of witnessing both unjust collateral damage  and having a capability to avoid it has placed another political constraint on American involvement in military ventures: reduced casualties .32 Calls to limit casualties  have currently made airpower the military instrument of choice. Precision capability affords limited collateral risk, while stealth  and the remoteness of the airborne platform minimize operator risk. Space power , as opposed to airpower, offers a remoteness/precision trade-off. By virtue of being even further removed from the battlefield, space power  provides lower operator risk 33 but higher risk of collateral casualties  (due to less precision caused by that remoteness). The concept of requiring reduced  casualties distinguishes airpower and space power  on two counts: 1. The remoteness of space affords reduced operator casualties: limited  risk to US personnel is a characteristic advantage of space power. 2. The proximity of the air affords reliable precision and reduced collateral damage : limited risk to collateral personnel is a characteristic advantage of airpower. Political characteristics of military power are tran