especially after the advent of satellite reconnaissance. 15. Although the Trident D-5 is also less accurate than its land-based contemporaries, it is accurate enough for use against hardened targets previously reserved for ICBMs and bombers, as discussed below. 16. Examples of the former included the British Blue Steel and the much longer-range US Skybolt air launched ballistic missile (ALBM), canceled in 1962; the most prominent defense-suppression missile was the American short range attack missile (SRAM), carried by B-52s and other Strategic Air Command (SAC) bombers. 17. In the US arsenal, the number of warheads per MIRVed missile ranged from three on the Minuteman III ICBM to 14 relatively small ones on the Poseidon SLBM. 18. In addition, in recent years, ballistic missiles and other strategic nuclear-delivery systems have also been adapted to carry nonnuclear warheads, including fuel-air explosives (FAE) and solid kinetic-energy projectiles. 19. Designed by Canadian artillery innovator Gerald Bull and intended for the bombardment of Israel or Teheran, one supergun was under construction in Iraq in 1990; British authorities intercepted parts for a larger version with a one-meter bore prior to shipment to Iraq. 20. See Kaplan, The Wizards of Armageddon , chaps. 6–8. Although SAC gradually shifted to a bomber force posture exclusively employing long-MUELLER 311  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 337 --- range bombers based in the continental United States, similar concerns would arise again in the 1980s, when NATO faced the prospect of Soviet SS-20  IRBM attacks using nuclear, chemical, or FAE warheads against its major European bases for dual-capable strike aircraft. 21. The latter are known alternatively as SSBNs or (occasionally) fleet ballistic missile (FBM) submarines or, colloquially in the United States Navy, “boomers.” 22. The conventional wisdom during most of the cold war held that the Soviets were generally unable to detect and track US and Br