y , but the development of the strategic air force  remained their top priority. The replacement of Cot  with Guy LeChambre  as air minister killed any hope for real reform in the air force . LeChambre disbanded the strategic air force  that Cot  had tried to create, and new production plans gave fighter  planes top priority.28 The paratroop force created by Cot  met the same fate, and no one seemed interested in incorporating antiaircraft defense, civil defense, and fighter defense under one command. With the support of the army ’s High Command, LeChambre rescinded some of Cot ’s most significant reforms—organizing a bomber force under air force command and placing all fighters for home defense under a single command. The bomber  and fighter groups reverted to the direct control of army  regional commanders. General Gamelin  insisted that the primary duty of airpower lay in protecting the army  from enemy air attack, 29 nullifying previous attempts to instill an offensive orientation in the French air force . At the outbreak of World War II , in many respects, French air doctrine  exhibited little change from 1918. Fighter units defended specific sectors, and air units fell under the jurisdiction and direct control of army  regional commanders. Although the French air force  remained by doctrine  an army support force, few updates of operational doctrine  for support operations had occurred. For most of the interwar period, the French air force  showed little interest in dive-bombers  or attack aviation . The air war in Spain  from 1936 to 1939, however, led to a renaissance in doctrinal thought among French air force officers. French military journals reported and commented in great detail on the air operations of both sides in Spain . Between 1937 and 1939, German and Italian use of dive-bombers  and bombers  in the interdiction  and close air support  roles received favorable coverage on numerous occasions in both Revue de l’Armée de l’Air  and Revue Militaire G