elopment since sociocultural factors determine both the form  or structure of an enemy and the process  or dynamics by which it operates. 57 To be fair, one must note that Warden  does not deny the need for thorough examination of the enemy as a political, economic, military, and sociocultural system. In addition, he would argue that, while the basic five-rings model  may be an oversimplified, “first order” analysis, successive differentiation of the rings reveals dynamic interrelationships within and between rings that are unique and important to the particular society or culture in question. The standard five-rings model simply serves as a starting point for further “higher order” analysis, a theoretical framework to guide air strategists  in their critical task of identifying enemy COGs .58 Thus, Warden ’s model reflects a subtle holism which undercuts the normal criticism that it is reductionist and oversimplistic. Clausewitz  may have penned a more accurate criticism over 150 years before Warden  published his ideas: It is only analytically that these attempts at theory [i.e., those of H. D. von Bülow , Antoine Henri Jomini , etc.] can be called advances in the realm of truth; synthetically, in the rules and regulations they offer, they are absolutely useless . They aim at fixed values; but in war everything is uncertain, and calculations have to be made with variable quantities. They direct the inquiry exclusively toward physical quantities,  whereas all military action is intertwined with psychological forces and effects. They consider only unilateral action,  whereas war consists of a continuous interaction of opposites. (Emphasis added) 59 As applied to Warden ’s theory  of strategic paralysis , this Clausewitzian  critique is threefold, as suggested by the italicized passages in the above quotation. First, even if Warden ’s analysis of the enemy system is correct, his “synthesized” rule of targeting leadership  does not necessarily follow. Although his ana