r  was bent on war, even predicting that it would break out in September 1939. 33 He did not think the French were ready for such a war; although their air force had some useful aircraft designs, political corruption prevented their mass production. On the other hand, he was pleased with British developments—he flew the Hurricane  and Spitfire  and came away impressed by their speed and armament. He rated these aircraft far superior to anything the Germans had and predicted that the Royal Air Force (RAF)  would prevail in any test with the Luftwaffe because of this qualitative superiority. 34 Few people were as sanguine about Britain ’s chances, but the major’s prediction proved accurate. Exactly what form de Seversky  expected the war would take during its initial stages remains unclear. Certainly, he believed airpower would play a key role, but no evidence indicates he embraced the concept of strategic bombing . Indeed, despite his connections with Billy Mitchell , his concentration as an engineer on fighter aircraft  and on theMEILINGER 249  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 276 --- technological challenges they presented suggests he had not given a great deal of thought to the issue of strategic airpower . This perspective changed when war broke out in September 1939. Five campaigns particularly impressed him. First, Germany ’s quick defeat of Poland  convinced him that airpower dominated ground forces —a lesson reinforced by the French campaign the following year. France ’s rapid collapse shocked most of the world, but de Seversky  simply remarked that the Maginot Line  had become the tomb for a nation that had refused to look skyward. 35 As in World War I , the French had relied on their army . This stubborn attachment to tradition proved disastrous. Two other campaigns gave different lessons: Norway  and Crete  demonstrated the superiority of airpower over naval forces . In both instances the Royal Navy , reputedly the finest in the world, had been d