tion ever be able to prove that it could provide a more efficient route to victory than that offered by conventional surface forces. A rational approach to this goal would seem to call for a campaign to convince the Army  that aviation could accomplish the strategic mission without jeopardizing the support function. Unfortunately, Mitchell ’s followers were, for the most part, zealots who sponsored bills in Congress  to establish a separate air force  with its promise of a strategic raison d’être. This only hardened Army  determination to hang on to its air arm. The very word strategic  became anathema, making it increasingly difficult for airmen to secure funds for ever-heavier, long-range, high-altitude bombers  rather than aircraft more suited to Army  support roles. With some justice, the Army  could complain that airmen were ungrateful. After all, the War Department  spent an increasing percentage of its funds on the air arm—more than a quarter of its annual outlay by the eve of World War II . From the perspective of the infantry, artillery, and all the supporting services, the Air Corps  seemed to be getting more than its fair share— especially in proportion to the small number of air officers involved. Why were the airmen so blind? Why did they fail to see that the situation called for subtle tactics and a better understanding of Army  sensibilities? The answer appears to lie in the institutional arrangements established to develop Air Corps  leaders. In its final configuration, the nearest thing airmen had to a think tank was the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS) —supposedly their premier educational institution—at Maxwell Field, Alabama . Sadly, ACTS  was more oriented to training than to true education, as revealed by the doctrines devised there. The faculty of ACTS  were, for the most part, hardworking officers, brave men, and able pilots. They were not, on the whole, broadly educated. They turned out doctrines  that pursued the Mitchell  vision but largel