n assured destruction  capability against the Soviet Union  by the mid-1950s, if not before.  Nuclear experts often believed that the Soviets did not attain this capability towards the United States  until they deployed substantial numbers of ICBMs  in the mid-1960s. As Richard Betts  notes, however, Washington  had begun acting as if the Soviet bomber force had produced a state of MAD  a decade earlier. 44 Beneath the elementary simplicity of this concept lies a host of debates about precisely what constitutes assured destruction , but the essentials are straightforward. Having assured destruction  capability requires maintaining a nuclear force that can ride out a hostile first strike and still retaliate  against the enemy, inflicting so much damage that the fear of such retaliation  deters the enemy from ever launching the first strike . Targets for such a retaliation  ought to be whatever the enemy values—and the enemy should know this or suspect it. Such countervalue  targets  typically include cities, and discussions of the amounts of expected damage required to assure deterrence usually refer to civilian deaths and the destruction of industrial capacity. If the enemy valued something else, such as conventional military forces or the lives of its leaders, one could target these instead. 45 Most such targets (with the exception of leaders in effective shelters) are  relatively easy to attack and doMUELLER 295  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 321 --- not require a high degree of accuracy or speed in nuclear- delivery systems—unlike targets such as hardened missile silos and underground command bunkers. Attacking the latter requires more accurate warhead delivery and usually involves greater urgency if the goal is to destroy a silo before missile launch; thus, accurate ICBMs , which possess these characteristics, have counterforce  capability. The survivability of second-strike nuclear  forces is critical, since a nuclear state vulnerable to destructio