isive element in war. 94 Were Army  airmen always right to fear their parent organization? Was the interwar Army  unremittingly hostile towards its own air arm? The answer to both questions is “no,” but the questions themselves are moot. For every complaint about bovine Army  generals robbing the Air Service /Air Corps  of its full potential and for every statistic “proving” War Department  and Army  parsimony, there are countervailing examples of substantive financial support and bureaucratic tolerance. The Air Service /Air Corps  was, after all, an independent  branch of the Army  that was coequal  with other combat arms. Its military expenditures, as a percentage of total War Department  disbursements, grew from 11.8 percent in 1925 to 28.1 percent in 1939. 95 (In fact, in only one year between 1925–39 [1933] did Air Corps  outlays fall as a percentage of War Department  spending.) In the bleak Depression  years of 1933–36, the Air Corps  still received $113.21 million in emergency funds, and its chief, as an aviator, was the highest paid officer in the Regular Army. 96 Yet, Regular Army members were not uniformly hostile or jealous. Aviator Hugh Knerr , for example, attended the Army War College  in 1930–31, where the “growing appreciation” of airpower left him “with no windmills to challenge.” 97 In turn, Air Force Chief of Staff Nathan Twining  later admitted that “the Army  took good care of us,” while Gen Howell Estes  did  not recall the Army treating its airmen as second-class citizens. 98FABER 205  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 232 --- On an objective level, Air Corps  complaints about Army persecution were polemical and wrongly popularized by sympathetic aviation historians. 99 (The real problem was that Congress  and the War Department  failed repeatedly to disburse the funds they promised and that the Army  and Navy suffered the same fate as the Air Corps —but their relative rates of deprivation were worse.) To repeat, however, the point w