ry’sTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 90  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 119 --- political leadership to create an independent air force . Many of his writings appeared in the popular press—not the professional military journals—because his intended audience was not the officer corps. In the aftermath of the “War  to End All Wars,” however, he found that his message could not persuade a populace beset by isolationism. Still, his progressive notions endured among airmen and provided the foundations for the bombing doctrine  they developed during the interwar years. After the armistice , Mitchell  began his airpower crusade in earnest. Although a recognized war hero—he had won the Distinguished Service Cross and the Distinguished Service Medal, as well as several foreign decorations—his quick tongue and steadfast beliefs prevented him from commanding the Air Service . He therefore had to settle for assistant chief, which, significantly, carried with it a brigadier general’s rank. Most officers had risen rapidly to high rank during the war, only to sink just as quickly to their “permanent” rank after the war ended and demobilization began. Foulois , for example, reverted to major, and Major General Patrick  to the rank of colonel. Mitchell  was, therefore, extremely fortunate to keep his star. Nonetheless, he stubbornly refused to cater to his Air Service  chief, Maj Gen Charles T. Menoher , an infantryman who had led the 42d “Rainbow” Division  in World War I . Despite Menoher ’s warning, Mitchell  illicitly published his report of the 1921 Ostfriesland  sinking. In the resulting power struggle, Menoher  resigned in protest, left the Air Service , and returned to the infantry (later he would be promoted to lieutenant general). Menoher ’s successor was Mason Patrick , who was promoted back to major general and once again called to keep the rambunctious Mitchell  in line. A wise choice, Patrick  learned to fly at age 60 to enhance his standing with his subordinates and to