uptly, wearing an extravagant uniform that he had designed himself, but his unbridled exuberance persuaded the general, who was “decided in manner and very direct in speech,” to give him a three-day dose of RFC  operations and Trenchard  philosophy. Mitchell  was particularly impressed by Trenchard ’s commitment to a single, unified air command that would allow him to “hurl a mass of aviation at any one locality needing attack.” For the British air leader, a tightly controlled, continuous aerial offensive was the key to success, and assigning air units to individual ground commanders  for defense was a mistake. Trenchard  highlighted the RFC ’s General Headquarters (GHQ) Brigade , a force designed to destroy the German army ’s means of supply and reinforcement but which possessed too few aircraft to do so in the spring of 1917. He argued that airpower should attack as  far as possible into the enemy’s country, noting that the development of new airplanes with greater ranges would make Berlin  a viable target. He did not, however, contend during his first encounter with Mitchell  that the quickest way to defeat the German army was through an air offensive  aimed at the German nation. Although some officers in the RFC  called for a “radical air strategy” against the German homeland, he remained focused on using airpower to defeat the German army  on the western front . Nonetheless, Mitchell  emerged from his initial contact with Trenchard  profoundly affected by the general’s insights and convinced that an aerial offensive was a key to winning the war. 13 As a result of observing Allied operations, Mitchell  proposed dividing the air contingent of the American ExpeditionaryTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 84  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 113 --- Force (AEF)  into categories of “tactical ” and “strategical ” aviation. He made his proposal to Gen John J. Pershing ’s chief of staff, Brig Gen James G. Harbord , who arrived in France  with the commanding general in mid-Ju