ich it had a particular interest. On the other hand, in order to facilitate progress, delegates acting as individuals often attempted to clarify issues or offer proposed solutions (especially when two countries differed). Likewise, the TAWP , recognizing the slow and cumbersome process of making changes to existing doctrine , acknowledged the need to speed up the process in light of changing circumstances—witness the requirement to update procedures used in CAS  missions, found in two annexes of ATP-27. AIRCENT  had submitted extensive changes for new procedures (e.g., on night CAS , laser operations, etc.), based upon the experience of Operation Deny Flight  (then being conducted by NATO  over the former Yugoslav Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina ). The TAWP , recognizing both the existence of a short-term problem on updating guidance on OAS  procedures to get to the field and a long-term philosophical debate on OAS , decided to hold the doctrinal debate in abeyance and proceed with updating the applicableTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 472  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 496 --- ATP-27 annexes. It then continued the philosophical debate with the goal of producing a “way ahead” framework for the subsequent development of NATO air doctrine . Rapidly finding common ground on the procedures, the TAWP  recommended that the Air Board quickly seek ratification of the procedures and publish them as an interim supplement to ATP-27 while the more laborious work on the basic document’s philosophy took place. Thus, it appears that NATO air doctrine  may be entering another Golden Age of development as air-minded people, sharing a common foundation of bedrock beliefs on the proper way to employ airpower, struggle with the massive political and military changes under way within and outside NATO , and seek to produce air doctrines  to cope with those changes. Notes 1. The difference between doctrine and strategy often lends itself to debate. As used in this chapter, strategy refers