orld sea power , arguably second only to Britain . Completion of the Panama Canal  provided evidence of its desire to dominate the Western Hemisphere. The Navy maintained several overseas bases, a force structure  of more than two dozen battleships, and a variety of other support vessels. A thriving industrial base that focused on overseas trade supported this seafaring nation. Twenty-five years earlier, however, that same nation had no overseas territories, only a few modern battleships, a military dispersed over its own frontier, an economy based on internal commerce, and a population that still viewed itself as an agrarian-based democracy. What happened to dramatically change the national focus over this relatively short period of time? Simply stated, the time was right. A unique combination of factors contributed to the rise of American naval power  during the first decade of the twentieth century. Primary among those factors was the acclaimed sea power  vision of Alfred T. Mahan ’s book The Impact  of Sea Power upon History, 1660–1783,  published in 1890, which provided a clear operational means by which an emerging sea power  could attain international status. That vision resonated with an American population in the process of becoming more aware of its international position—and with a dynamic young president, Theodore Roosevelt . As assistant secretary of the Navy , he had recognized the potential of the United States  as a world leader, as well as the mechanism to attain it: sea *The author recognizes the significant contributions of Maj Cynthia A. S. McKinley, a strategy and policy analyst for Headquarters Air Force Space Command/XPXS, and Maj Michael A. Rampino, a J6 (Communications Directorate) strategy and policy analyst for the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 529  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 553 --- power  as prescribed by Mahan . If the popular Mahanian theoretical base and presidential endorsement were not enough, technological growth (smokeles