ry, includes only a single chapter out of two dozen that deals with air theory—and neither is comprehensive. 4 Admittedly, however, the list of great air thinkers is not large, and in some cases the list of their writings is surprisingly thin. Nonetheless, even before the invention of the airplane, some people imagined flight as one of mankind’s potentially greatest achievements. Flight would not only free people from the tyranny of gravity and its earthly xii  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 11 --- chains, but it would liberate them mentally, socially, and spiritually. This linkage of the airplane and freedom was prevalent in much of the literature of the first decades of this century. This spirit dovetailed with the growing fascination with all things mechanical. The machine became synonymous with modern man, who saw the airplane as the ultimate machine. Certainly, it was capable of causing great harm—the scientific fantasies of H. G. Wells and Jules Verne anticipated this clearly—but, paradoxically, the airplane and its pilot were held up as a symbol of courage and nobility. Once in the clearness and pristine purity of the sky, the dirt and meanness of earthbound society were left behind. This was heady stuff, bespeaking the callowness of a forgotten era. Although most military men dismissed such fantasies, arguing instead for more traditional means and methods of war, others quickly saw the airplane’s potential as a weapon. Perhaps the most important air theorist was Giulio Douhet. When studying him, however, one is struck by how little has been written about the man and his ideas. No biography of Douhet has been published in English (although a useful doctoral dissertation on him appeared nearly 25 years ago), and little is known about his life. Analyses of his works are also surprising in both their superficiality and their paucity in number. Most amazing of all, although Douhet wrote prodigiously, very few of his works have been translated from his