ky . However, the nuclear theorists  enjoyed the advantage of being, if not powerful themselves, at least consultants to the makers of military policy  rather than prophets in the wilderness. They did not have to persuade their audience that nuclear strategy  or nuclear weapons  were important or cost-effective. Perhaps more significantly, for the most part their policy-making  audience accepted their status as strategic experts, although this did not mean that their opinions necessarily carried weight. In fact, the opposite was more often true: the evolution of US nuclear strategy  and weapons development would have differed radically at a number of points if nuclear strategists  had been more influential and military and political leaders less so. But it did make their enterprise one of Big Science—in some ways not unlike the Manhattan Project  itself. In spite of the similarities between Douhet ’s vision of the nature of the next war and that of the nuclear strategists , they developed very different theories. Douhet ’s postwar intellectual successors did not share his belief in the inevitability of another great (total) war. Douhet  did not envision mutual assured destruction (MAD) , although he could have done so. Instead, he argued that strategic bombing would make wars inexpensive by ending them quickly and efficiently, providing an escape from the prolonged carnage of another Great War . If the next war were going to be cheap, states had little reason not to fight it. The nuclear theorists ,THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 292  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 318 --- having seen in the Second World War  (like the Great War ) that one cannot easily terrorize modern nations into surrendering, could not pretend that another total war  would be less than horrific. They recognized that states fearing catastrophe would try to avoid it. The body of theory that emerged from their efforts emphasizes a relatively small number of central concepts, most of which are relev