ical linkages that bind the hubs together. This destroys the enemy’s internal harmony and external connection to the real world, producing paralysis  and collapsing resistance. In perhaps the most well known feature of Boyd ’s theory, he contends that one can depict all rational human behavior— individual or organizational—as a continual cycling through four distinct tasks: observation, orientation, decision, and action . Boyd  refers to this decision-making cycle as the “OODA loop ” (fig. 1). Using this construct, the crux of winning becomes the relational movement of opponents through their respective OODA loops .26 Whoever repeatedly observes, orients, decides, and acts more rapidly (and accurately) than his enemy will win.27 By doing so, he “folds his opponent back inside himself” and eventually makes enemy reaction inappropriate to the situation at hand.28 The key to attaining a favorable edge in OODA loop  speed and accuracy (hence, to winning) is efficient and effective orientation. To survive and grow within a complex, ever-changing world of conflict, we must effectively and efficiently orient ourselves; THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 366  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 391 --- that is, we must quickly and accurately develop mental images—or schemata—to help comprehend and cope with the vast array of threatening and nonthreatening events we face. This image construction—or orientation—is nothing more than the process of destruction (analysis) and creation (synthesis) described earlier. In Boyd ’s words, it involves the process of “examining the world from a number of perspectives so that we can generate mental images or impressions that correspond to that world.”29 Done well, it becomes the key to winning instead of losing. Done exceedingly well, it becomes the mark of genius. 30 The mental images we construct are shaped by our personal experience, genetic heritage, and cultural traditions. They determine our decisions, actions, and observations. 31 Observa