e been tarred with the urban bombing  brush, although inaccurately. Trenchard  and his successors viewed the collapse of enemy morale  as the ultimate goal, but the mechanism used to achieve that goal was the destruction or disruption of enemy industry —a legitimate military target  under the laws of war. This belief was consistently reflected in the RAF ’s doctrine manuals, in the courses at the Staff College that its most promising officers attended, in the major exercises the RAF conducted in the 1920s and 1930s, and in the prewar guidance of its senior leaders. RAF doctrine , which expanded and codified Trenchard ’s beliefs, thus constituted a unique strain of airpower theory that combined key concepts of the other two major schools of strategic bombing  in the interwar years—those of Douhet  and the instructors at the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS)  at Maxwell Field, Alabama . Douhet  also believed that the ultimate objective in war was to destroy enemy morale , but he preached that one should do this by bombing  the people directly with gas and incendiaries. But the officers at ACTS chose to concentrate on breaking the capability  of the enemyMEILINGER 71  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 100 --- to wage war, implementing this strategy by targeting  the industrial infrastructure. Quite simply, the RAF  combined these two approaches, choosing the Douhetian objective of morale  and the ACTS industrial targeting  scheme. None of these three airpower theories  proved completely accurate in World War II . One must remember, however, that the airplane was in its infancy and that there was very little experience upon which to base a theory  of airpower. Airmen thus did the best they could, examining the history of warfare and of airpower in the Great War , calling upon their own aviation experience, and—most of all—relying on their own logic and imagination, unconstrained by temporary technological limitations. The RAF  thinker who emerges from the interw