est: A History of NATO  (Brighton, England: Wheatsheaf, 1986); or Escott Reid, Time of Fear and Hope: The Making of the North Atlantic Treaty, 1947 –1949  (Toronto: McClelland & Stewart, 1977). 11. The rapid and extensive demobilization undertaken by the West after World War II had the effect of worsening this situation. 12. Josef M. A. H. Luns, former secretary-general of NATO, in Golden et al., x. 13. The Schuman Plan (named after the French foreign minister), announced in May 1950 and eventually becoming the European Coal and Steel Community (the antecedent organization to the European Economic Community formalized in the 1957 Treaty of Rome), is another example of a measure undertaken to tie Germany and its former adversaries together. 14. West Germany also presented NATO with a significant military problem in that it forced the alliance into a strategy that became known as “forward defense,” which in 1963 tasked NATO ground forces with defending the inner German border and precluded them from trading space for time. 15. Thompson, 2–3. See also Werner Kaltefleiter, “NATO and Germany,” in Lawrence S. Kaplan et al., eds., NATO after Forty Years  (Wilmington, Del.: Scholarly Resources, 1990); and Ian Smart, “The Political and Economic Evolution of NATO’s Central Region,” in Golden et al. 16. Pierre Melandri, “France and the United States,” in Golden et al. Melandri argues that events such as the Marshall Plan, German rearmament, colonial policies (especially in Algeria and Indochina), the 1956 Suez crisis, and even the formation of NATO itself, bespoke increasing French dependency on the United States, which sparked a nationalistic backlash. Kugler points out that France, under the conditions of the 1946 McMahon Act, which prohibited the United States from sharing information about atomic weapons even to its allies, was not included in a 1958 amendment that allowed Britain to receive nuclear help (page 86). 17. Melandri, 66. 18. This is not to imply that NATO waite