nd capabilities. 8 MilitaryTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 486  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 510 --- strategy  provided the theoretical framework that united domestic politics, economics, history, morale, science, international politics, and military forces. It also unified military doctrine  and operational art —its ultimate application. Military strategy  linked political leadership and the Soviet High Command in preparing the nation for war. The Soviet High Command organized strategy, planned force deployments, prepared the armed forces for war, and controlled them during war. Military strategy’s  political basis directly influenced the military-technical fundamentals of doctrine . Because of this circular relationship between military strategy  and doctrine , any change in the theoretical base of one produced changes in the other. Doctrine ’s views about future war  guided strategy . Simultaneously, strategy affected the formulation and perfection of doctrine ’s military-technical component. This military-technical aspect of doctrine  remained a dynamic idea, constantly adjusted to reflect changes in force posture, political requirements, economic factors, scientific achievement, and changes introduced by potential enemies. Timothy Thomas  notes six considerations embraced by the military-technical dimension of military doctrine : (1) the character (nature) of the military threat; (2) the type and struggle that may result (future war ); (3) the requirements for defense (historical paradigm about war’s beginning, initial period, timing, and interaction of technology ); (4) the required armed forces (strategic posture, mobilization, and deployment); (5) the means to conduct armed struggle and the use of the armed forces (force generation, manning, and equipping); and (6) preparation of the armed forces to accomplish these tasks (training, etc.). 9 Soviet military doctrine  guided the development of military art, but military art  was not its subset. Doctrine  co