has our professional military education  system kept pace? The more than nine decades of air-arm thought depicted in this volume lead to one rather obvious conclusion: airpower theory, aerospace power theory, is forever unfinished. The challenge to a rising generation of air officers is manifest. Will they develop the rigorously authenticated theories required by successive advances in technology , or will they be satisfied with ill-supported visions or even suffer illusions? Notes 1. Thomas Sowell, Knowledge and Decisions  (New York: Basic Books, 1980), 4–5. 2. Parenthetical page references in the text are to The Paths of Heaven . 3. See Carl H. Builder, The Icarus Syndrome: The Role of Air Power Theory in the Evolution and Fate of the U.S. Air Force  (New Brunswick, N.J.: Transaction Publishers, 1994). 4. See John A. Warden III, The Air Campaign: Planning for Combat (Washington, D.C.: National Defense University Press, 1988).HOLLEY 599  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 623 --- Contributors Lt Col Mark A. Clodfelter  was a professor of airpower history at the School of Advanced Airpower Studies (SAAS) from 1991 to 1994. He received his BS from the US Air Force Academy in 1977, MA from the University of Nebraska, and PhD from the University of North Carolina. He is the author of the critically acclaimed The Limits of Air Power: The American Bombing of North Vietnam  (Free Press, 1989), as well as numerous articles dealing with military and airpower history. A weapons controller with a tour in South Korea, he is currently professor of aerospace studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. His latest project is a history of American strategic bombing, to be published by Free Press. Dr. James S. Corum  has been a professor of comparative military studies at SAAS since 1991. After completing his undergraduate education at Gonzaga University, he received an MA from Brown University, an MLitt from Oxford University, and a PhD from Queen’s Universi