ompelling. 47 In his first lecture, the commandant argued that due to industrialization, the growth of democracy, and trade unionism , people as a whole were now more directly affected by war. Just as important, they were more able than in the past to influence or even stop a war via the vote or a strike. As a result, “it is now the will  power of the enemy nation that hasTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 58  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 87 --- to be broken, and to do this is the object of any country that goes to war.” 48 The first step in this process was to win air superiority . Unlike CD 22, which implied that this was an end in itself, Brooke-Popham  cautioned that gaining control of the air was useful only in that it allowed an air attack  on the vital centers . Because neutralization of such centers brought victory, air leaders should not lose sight of their true goal. These vital centers  would vary, depending on the enemy—they might even be the armed forces—but the ultimate objective was to break the will  of the enemy. Regarding how one might best affect that will , the commandant took a slightly different view from the official line. If government policy called for bombing a town, he stated that “we must faithfully carry out any decision of our Government in the matter, even if such decisions be repugnant to our own private conceptions of morality.” Such a “we must all be good soldiers” approach offered a dangerous loophole, quickly entered: “This being so, we must study how best to utilize such forms of violence.” 49 Air Commodore Ludlow-Hewitt , Brooke-Popham ’s successor as commandant, echoed that sentiment: “War is a wild beast which when uncaged is soon out of control and running amuck. . . . Let us abolish war if we can, but so long as war is possible then we must face all that war entails.” 50 Such a view can easily become a self-fulfilling prophecy—preparing for the worst because it may occur can help make it occur. Ludlow-Hewitt ’s lectures on ai