d reckoning, never quite sure of what they will encounter when the fog partially lifts and the bullets, missiles, and electrons begin flying with malice. Military leaders sailing through this fog of peace not only must articulate a reasonably accurate vision of the nature of future war  and define new operational concepts for fighting it successfully, but also—through fiat, consensus building, or some combination thereof—must convince their service that the course upon which they are embarked is correct. Further, they must implement a coherent policy that will mold the service to meet its anticipated challenges. 2 None of this is easy, but these peacetime challenges become significantly more difficult when the issues require the active participation of two services with significantly different institutional histories, self-images, and battlefield perspectives. Unsurprisingly, the Army  and the Air Force  look at war from two sharply contrasting points of view. To most Army  officers, it is axiomatic that ground soldiers with weapons decide the ultimate outcome of any war. The consideration of terrain is part and parcel of everything they do. Although weather influences their operations, it does not preclude them. Furthermore, soldiers live where they fight: on the ground, with almost constant exposure to privation and danger. The primary force they must reckon with is the enemy ground formation. But—and this is a very important but—virtually all thinking soldiers also remain painfully aware of their need for air support : to keep the enemy air force off their backs and to reduce the effectiveness of the enemy’s ground formations. Airmen live in an entirely different mental and physical universe. They do not accept the axiom that the ultimate result comes from soldiers on the ground. Many airmen believe passionately that airpower is a liberating force that can produce tactical, operational, and strategic results quite independently of land formations. Features of ter