ns and the doctrines  behind them must be seen as responses to the perceived threat posed by American decisions.”13 Russian military doctrine , therefore, represents an amalgam of factors. The international political environment and an assessment of the probability of war formed its political component. The evolution of Soviet military doctrine  reflected the influence of foreign doctrines . Soviet history forged the Soviet perspective of war. World War II , with its more than 20 million Soviet deaths, had a profound effect. 14 Internal political, economic, and social constraints, as well as the nature of Soviet decision making , greatly affected the nature of doctrine. Technological innovation also played a key role. Thus, Soviet military doctrine  arose from the interaction of a multitude of often conflicting factors. Post World War II: Stalin’s Era (1945–53).  The formative impact of World War II  led military doctrine  to cast future war in the mold of that experience—protracted land war, with ground troops  directly supported by tanks, artillery, and aircraft. Soviet leaders believed that surprise attackTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 488  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 512 --- characterized this period. 15 Although the war laid the foundation of military doctrine , the Soviets conducted little critical examination of their failures in 1941 and 1942. Furthermore, Joseph Stalin  placed great importance on atomic weapons  and rocketry for international prestige. US superiority in strategic nuclear weapons  and airpower prompted a Soviet emphasis on strong conventional forces and offensive counterattack into Europe  from Soviet bases in Eastern Europe. The international political environment and Marxist-Leninist ideology also shaped military doctrine . Marxist idealism included the inevitable clash between capitalism and socialism, which reinforced the Soviets’ view of the world. Most influential was the role played by the nature of the internal Soviet political s