e alive with a shadow staff and their curious eight-year expatriate operation in Russia . With the Luftwaffe ’s strong tradition of objective after-action reporting and thorough analysis of foreign airpower theories, its officers in the 1930s came up with a remarkably broad-gauge doctrine  that stressed the primacy of strategic bombardment  but did not neglect the importance of tactical support of the armies. Thus by 1936, Luftwaffe  doctrine called for a bomber -heavy force. Several circumstances were to warp this orientation substantially. Because the Luftwaffe  lacked an adequate bombsight in quantity production, its experience with high-level bombing  proved disappointing. Further, thinking largely in Continental terms, especially of France  and Poland as enemies, the Germans designed their bombers  for relatively short-range flights. And just at this juncture, Gen Ernst Udet witnessed the effectiveness of US Navy  dive-bombers  and returned home to insist on converting the Luftwaffe  to aHOLLEY 585  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 609 --- dive-bomber  force. The success of Condor Legion  dive-bombers against Republican ground forces  in Spain  exercised a subtle but powerful reorientation of Luftwaffe  thought toward support of the army. What then was the message that all the Continental powers displayed on the eve of World War II  to any potential inquirer? All gave lip service to the possibility of a strategic strike force, but they configured their air arms and oriented their doctrine largely in terms of support for ground arms. Little in the surviving record suggests that US officers of the interwar years engaged in any serious inquiry into European air theory . It seems clear, however, that with the exception of the RAF , the air arms of the great nations of Europe  offered substantial affirmation to the prevailing notion of the US Army General Staff that the principal function of aviation was to support ground forces . In the United States , th