evolution.pdf --- Page 421 --- War  (Fairfax, Va.: Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association [AFCEA] International Press, 1992), xxi, note 6. 79. In his briefing “Organic Design for Command and Control,” Boyd specifically states that the OODA loop is, by its very nature, a C 2 loop (page 26). See “A Discourse on Winning and Losing.” 80. Warden states that precision, speed, stealth, and information management are the essential ingredients of parallel warfare. Col John A. Warden III, “War in 2020,” Spacecast 2020 lecture, Air War College, Maxwell AFB, Ala., 29 September 1993. 81. Warden, interview, 23 February 1994. 82. J. C. Slessor, Airpower and Armies (London: Oxford University Press, 1936), x. 83. Andrew Krepinevich of the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) defines “information dominance” as a relatively  superior understanding of an enemy’s political, economic, military, and social structures. He contends that establishing such information dominance may be the decisive operation in future wars. See Andrew Krepinevich, “The Military-Technical Revolution” (paper for the OSD Office of Net Assessment, Washington, D.C., Fall 1992), 22. 84. Clearly, our potential adversaries differ significantly in terms of their reliance upon advanced information technologies; consequently, the viability of paralysis by control warfare based on information targeting must vary likewise. 85. In fact, the most recent Joint Publication 1,  Joint Warfare of the US Armed Forces,  11 November 1991, codifies the use of advanced technologies to establish a favorable “information differential.” It states that “the joint campaign should fully exploit the information differential, that is, the superior access to and ability to effectively employ information on the strategic, operational and tactical situation which advanced U.S. technologies provide our forces” (page 57). In addition, the National Defense University at Fort Lesley J. McNair, Washington, D.C., opened a School o