ff. The following month, he stated that “long distance bombi ng . . . ought to be vigorously developed as part and parcel of theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 46  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 75 --- Royal Flying Corps .” He repeated this call for a strategic air offensive in a memo of June 1918. 13 Trenchard  was aware, however, of the difficulties experienced by British aircraft manufacturers. Airplane losses in France  were so high that production  could not keep pace. He did not wish to deprive combat units of machines in order to establish the new strategic air force . Frederick Sykes argued that a “margin” of excess aircraft produced by the manufacturers would allow formation of the Independent Force  without hurting the combat situation on the western front . Trenchard  disagreed that such a margin existed. Therefore, one can better understand his reluctance to assume command of the Independent Force  by recalling his devotion to Haig  and the British army . In 1918 ground forces  were paramount, and Trenchard neither advocated nor approved of air operations  divorced from the ground situation. In addition, as Trenchard  himself later maintained, his bombers  had neither the range nor the mass to carry out effective strategic strikes  (barely one-third of the Independent Force  missions struck targets in Germany ). Consequently, he objected to dividing up limited air resources, some for army operations , some for fleet defense , and still others for long-range bombing : “I believe the air is one.” 14 He perceived an evolutionary path for airpower and recognized the folly of moving too far too quickly. Trenchard  was not unusual in this regard. In America, Billy Mitchell , Ben Foulois , and Hap Arnold  all made similar intellectual journeys from skepticism to advocacy. The fact that Trenchard  refused to accept the exaggerated claims of men like Sykes  and Smuts  was more a sign of measured maturity than of fickleness. After a victorious war effort, the mili