lished between senior Army and Air Force  leaders proved vital to the strength of the partnership. The positive personal chemistry apparent in, among others, the Abrams /Brown , DePuy /Dixon , Wickham / Gabriel , and Starry /Creech  relationships helped forge a partnership in peace that would hopefully withstand the rigors of war. 110 A gradual but distinct change in Air Force  leadership abetted these relationships. In 1960 bomber  pilots held 77 percent of the top Air Force leadership positions—fighter pilots, 11 percent. 111 By 1975 the figures were 43 percent for bomber  pilots and 41 percent for fighter  pilots; by 1990 they had largely reversed themselves to 18 percent for bomber pilots and 53 percent for fighter pilots. The more prominent role of fighter pilots in the Vietnam War  and the declining numbers of bombers  in the inventory seem to have driven this shift, at least in part. Although the analysis has complications (e.g., General Brown  had flown as a bomber, fighter, and airlift pilot), the trend remains clear; further, one can legitimately suspect that the Air Force  fighterTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 430  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 455 --- community proved slightly more favorably disposed to welcome the Army ’s doctrinal advances than did the bomber community. The final factor pulling the Army  and the Air Force  together was the Army ’s clear vision of how it wanted to fight a future war and its distinct realization that Air Force  support was absolutely essential for winning one. Air Force  centrality to the Army ’s view of tactics was integral to both doctrines of Active Defense  and AirLand Battle ; and the Army ’s articulation of the operational level of war in the latter also contained an explicit acknowledgment of the importance of coordinated air support. In something of a doctrinal muddle for several years after Vietnam , the Air Force  appeared to follow the Army ’s lead. Some forces, however, tended to pull the services in opposi