uld not be built under the treaty, aircraft carriers certainly could, and by the end of the decade the  Langley, Lexington,  and  Saratoga were in commission. Although surface seamen still dominated their service in the interwar years, the role of the aircraft carrier was becoming increasingly prominent. Everyone recognized that air superiority over the fleet was essential, but surface admirals saw the main decision in battle still residing with the big guns. Naval airmen quietly disagreed, thinking instead of a fleet based around aircraft carriers as the decisive arm. The war in the Pacific, heralded by the destruction of the battleship fleet at Pearl Harbor, to a great extent fulfilled the hopes of the naval airmen. Although initially seeing their role as fleet defense and then as air support during amphibious operations, by the end of World War II their sights were set higher. In 1945 “targets ashore” increasingly became the objectives of carrier air. Thus, it was a small step in the postwar era to move from air attack of land targets to strategic xvi  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 15 --- bombardment, using nuclear weapons, of objectives deep inside enemy territory. Once a small and weak youngster, naval airpower became the dominant force within its service in the space of a generation. Traditional sea power had given way to airpower employed from the sea. The most interesting aspect of this transformation is that it was accompanied by surprisingly little internal bloodshed. Naval aviators saw themselves as sailors first; there was little talk of divorce. The Navy had no Billy Mitchell—and obviously has not regretted it. Perhaps it is not surprising that Britain and the United States, traditional sea powers, embraced strategic airpower more vigorously than did other countries. Similarities exist between the type of long-term—and long-range—economic warfare characterized by a naval campaign and the aerial bombing of a country’s centers of gravity. The