that circumstances had allowed an assessment under real combat conditions on such an unprecedented scale. Dr. V. Tsygichko , head of Moscow ’s National Security and Strategic Stability Studies Center , admitted at a lecture at Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe  on 5 March 1991, that models run by the General Staff before the Gulf War  had grossly overestimated the coalition ’s losses and failed to predict the outcome. He blamed this failure on not having reliable parameters to assign to the allied weapons, pointing out that their models contained no factors to account for the Iraqis’ poor discipline and morale. Finally, he noted that the air campaign  lasted considerably longer than most Soviet analysts had predicted. 78 Of extreme importance, these models contained algorithms based on the Soviets’ previous notions of the nature of future war. The failure of the models repudiated the previous doctrinal base for predicting what the nature of future war might hold. Marshal S. Achromeyev  supported Tsygichko ’s views by affirming that the Soviet estimates “were based onTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 506  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 530 --- classic AirLand Battle  doctrine.” Increasing the air campaign to 40 days invalidated the projection models. Achromeyev implied that the models had their basis in a Central European scenario by stating, “The conduct of air operations  of such duration against an enemy approximately equal in strength would have been impossible.”79 The General Staff convened another roundtable in mid- March 1991 to evaluate the performance of Soviet air defense equipment in the Gulf War  and to determine the effects on research and development (R&D) . Senior officers stifled the formal presentations, trying to avoid criticism and contentious issues. Consequently, some junior officers in attendance noted that most of the interesting and compelling comments occurred “in the lobby.” Some of the core issues they thought needed attention include