edy  provided that unity, and it propelled us to the Moon. Such unity in the space community is sorely lacking today. The Air Force  is theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 570  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 594 --- wrong place to focus that unity. To do so constitutes an attempt to force the merger of two unique realms. That is bad for space power  and bad for airpower. The Air Force  ought to be a major player—but not the only player. A unifying, independent space organization—drawing on the experience of NASA , the three armed services, and industry—has the best chance of making the right investment choices today that will put the United States  at the forefront of space power  tomorrow. Notes 1. E. B. Potter, ed., Sea Power: A Naval History (Annapolis: Naval Institute Press, 1981), chap. 18. The notion of motivating discussion by alluding to the emergence of sea power at the turn of the century comes from a paper by Lt Col R. Pelligrini, prepared for a course in Science, Philosophy, Military Theory, and Technological Investment Strategy, School of Advanced Airpower Studies, Maxwell AFB, Ala., April 1995. 2. AFM 1-1,  Basic Aerospace Doctrine of the United States Air Force,  vol. 1, March 1992, 5. 3. AFDD 1,  “Basic Air Force Doctrine,”  draft,  14 May 1996, 1. 4. As used here, military power is synonymous with land, sea, and space power, as well as airpower. The four realms recognized here are air, land, sea, and space; the prospect that information constitutes a fifth realm is yet to be confirmed and is not assumed. 5. One should note, however, that despite the publication of a variety of airpower theories, there is no comprehensive theory of airpower on par with the land power theory of Clausewitz or the sea power theory of Mahan. See H. Winton, “Air Power Theory: A Black Hole in the Wild Blue Yonder,” Air Power History  39 (Winter 1992): 32. 6. As noted in AFM  1-1, a strategic attack (e.g., bombing an aircraft factory) can be a vital part of the realm-control