hnicians with Geiger-Müller counters examined the craters, but found no radioactivity. [Irving, 1967:216, 226] In November, the Allies became concerned at major construction at sites around Hechingen, the centre for German nuclear physics. The plants were quickly found to be for the extraction of oil Navigation, Blind Bombing, Radar and Countermeasures Navigation: German use of 'Gee'; SS Loran; H2S and Fishpond With their own beam systems jammed, in 1944 the Germans made limited use of the British 'Gee' to navigate on raids over Britain. For secrecy, to avoid the British changing the Gee transmissions, only I/KG66 pathfinders carried a receiver, normally a German Truhe set but one Ju188 shot down over Britain contained a captured RAF Gee set (re-labelled FuG122). Meanwhile, in autumn 1944 the Germans built a powerful new jammer for Gee, on the Feldberg hill near Frankfurt. But within days of becoming operational, it was located and destroyed by RAF fighter-bombers. Using a short wavelength with a long time-base, Loran radio waves could be reflected from the ionosphere at night, giving ranges of up to 12,000 miles. This 'SS' Loran (for Skywave Synchronized) technique was of little value for the USAAF's day bombing, but usable for RAF night raids. Accordingly, in August LNSF Mosquitos began using it over Germany with combined Gee/Loran sets, Loran being used when beyond the range of Gee. Despite its lower accuracy, Loran was used for blind bombing of Berlin. British developments with the 'H2S' ground-imaging radar included a gyro-controlled roll stabilizer to hold the display while the aircraft was banking or taking evasive action; and the 'Fishpond' aircraft warning facility. Fishpond used a second CRT to show bearing and range of any echoes at intermediate heights below the aircraft, so picking up any bombers or enemy night fighters below. Fishpond gradually replaced Monica.  1944 220 Blind Bombing: Centimetric Oboe Mk.II and Deception; Micro-H On 7 January, the Ger