required target area. Night Bombing Techniques and Operations Raids on U-boat Pens When the reinforced concrete U-boat shelters in France were under construction and vulnerable, the British Admiralty's priority for bombing attacks had been the Scharnhorst and Gneisenau, not the shelters. Now the 8th AF had shown the completed shelters to be unpromising targets for conventional bombs. However, the U-boats were causing grievous losses to Allied convoys. Therefore, at Admiralty insistence, and with most civilians having fled after earlier raids, the RAF mounted heavy Oboe-marked raids on the U-boat bases at Lorient (13 February, 466 aircraft) and St Nazaire (28 February, 437 aircraft). The objective was to destroy if not the shelters themselves then all the surrounding infrastructure supplying them. The raids demolished the towns ('No cat or dog is left' reported Grand Admiral Dönitz), while the shelters remained intact. [Webster and Frankland, Vol.2, 1961:97] For the Germans, the disruption was minor, and their comment that the shelters provided valuable air-raid protection for Germany stopped further such raids. But the failure led eventually to the Admiralty development of the Terrell rocket bomb, even though the Navy had no aircraft to carry it. The Lorient raid was the first to exceed 1,000 tons of bombs dropped. A raid on Dortmund on the night of 23 May was the first to exceed 2,000 tons. The 'Battle of the Ruhr'; Night Shuttle Bombing Missions The first of the RAF's three major bombing campaigns against Germany in 1943 was the Battle of the Ruhr, in the period 5 March-12 July. It began with a hugely destructive  1943 202 NIGHT BOMBING TECHNIQUES AND OPERATIONS 203 Oboe-marked attack by 443 aircraft on Essen. During the campaign, Bomber Command flew 18,506 sorties, dropping 58,000 tons of bombs in 43 major attacks on heavily defended cities, mostly in the Ruhr. The battle cost Bomber Command 872 aircraft missing. But despite the devastation caused in industrial a