Equipment and Bombsights Bomb Mounting, Bomb Bays; Clusters Bombs were normally mounted to a bomb rack or carrier having a longitudinal beam with fore and aft pairs of bomb steadies, and one or two shackles or claw slip releases engaging lugs on the bomb case. Some larger bombs were held via fore and aft slings each with a release. A bomb distributor could offer a choice of single, grouped or sequenced 'stick' bombing, the sequence minimizing c.g. shift. To minimize drag, bombs were preferably carried internally, fuselage bomb bays being the norm, located to straddle the aircraft c.g. Bomb-bay doors were hand cranked or powered, sometimes held closed by bungees and forced open by the weight of the released bombs. Given the emphasis on small bombs, there were structure weight  Cano PRE-WORLD WAR TWO 44 AIRCRAFT BOMBS advantages in spreading the bomb weight across the wing, hence variations included bomb cells in the wings (Battle, Whitley), containers under the wings (Wellesley), and small bays in the engine nacelles (Pe-2). Fortuitously, the Halifax and Lancaster were to have long unobstructed bomb bays (from a requirement to stow two 18-inch torpedoes), enabling the carriage of very large bombs later in the war. The bomb bays of some German aircraft (Ju86, He111) were unusual in having eight vertical bomb chutes, each for a single bomb attached nose up; release gave a characteristic nose-up to nose-down bomb toppling motion, well shown in film sequences. Small bombs were held in containers which remained attached to the aircraft (e.g. the RAF's SBC) and which opened to shower them down; or for reduced spread they were grouped in a 'cluster' which was itself carried and dropped like a bomb, a fuse causing it to release the bombs at lower altitude. Types included a 'bundled cluster' with beams, end-plates, nose and tail, all held together by circumferential straps which came apart; and a 'nose ejection cluster', a cylinder having a burster charge behind a rear pressu