ted the first US night raid in Europe, attacking the Ploesti refineries, but none found the target. Further small night raids followed, against Benghazi and Tobruk. In July, B-25s arrived and these too made some night missions. without flame dampers. In the Pacific, during the Battle of Midway, four B-24s attempted a night raid on the Japanese-held Wake Island base, but failed to find the target. A later attempt on 23 December was successful, the B-24s gliding down to 2,500f to bomb. In China, P-40s of the US CATF (China Air Task Force, ex-AVG) mounted a night dive-bombing mission against the heavily defended Hankow docks. The British 'Pathfinder Force'; Early Techniques New navigational aids (Gee, Oboe, H2S) brought a case for a specialist night 'Target Finding Force' to find and mark the target for other bombers. Each new aid would initially only be available in small numbers and would require special training, while some aids (e.g. Oboe) were inherently only usable by a few aircraft. After much opposition to the idea of 'élite crews', including from Harris, on 15 August 1942 RAF Bomber Command set up 8 Group, the Pathfinder Force (PFF), under Grp Capt. D.C.T. Bennett. The initial strength was four squadrons, flying Stirling, Halifax. Lancaster and Wellington bombers respectively. A Mos- quito squadron, No.109 then testing Oboe, was seconded to the PFF. The PFF operated for the first time on 18 August in a raid on Flensburg, using Gee and marking with flares and incendiaries. Proposals to have SOE agents place Eureka radio beacons to enable the RAF to find and bomb the small and distant town of Schweinfurt were not adopted. But PFF NIGHT BOMBING 165 innovations followed quickly. On August 28 the 'RBF' (Red Blob Fire) pyrotechnic marker was introduced, in a raid on Nuremberg; the 250lb RBF contained a mix of benzol, rubber and phosphorus coloured to burn with a red glow. Then, in the 4 September raid on Bremen, the PFF operated in three groups: 'Illuminators' dropp