ing 1-12 hour delay fuses, e.g. at road junctions; this made night convoy movements hazardous. In addition, RAF Mosquitos attacked trains, convoys and other targets at night, sometimes with Mitchell bombers dropping flares to illuminate them. With a locomotive's steam visible from five miles at night, train crews were forced to stop when aircraft were around, making the journeys very slow. US 9th AF P-61 Black Widow night fighters were also diverted to night strafing and bombing operations against transport.  1944 236 DAYLIGHT BOMBING TECHNIQUES Daylight Bombing Techniques Revised 8th AF Formations; Formation Building With long-range escort fighters and H2X becoming available, in January the 8th AF revised its formations to suit. The Combat Wing of 54 aircraft was replaced by the Group of 36 aircraft in three squadrons in lead, high and low positions, each squadron flying in close formation on four levels. This more compact formation was easier for the fighters to protect, and offered more accurate radar bombing. With US raids now involving hundreds of bombers taking off from different bases, efforts were made to improve the building up of the formations at the outset of a raid. One approach used war-weary, stripped and unarmed B-24 'assembly ships', each with flare guns, fuselage lights to flash the unit code, and a distinctive bright colour scheme (e.g. yellow with large red polka dots, or black with orange lightning stripes), on which other crews would formate. The assembly ship returned to base once the formation was on course. An alternative was the 'monitor ship', normally a P-47, flown by an officer giving voice instructions to the bomber crews. Formation building was in stages, aircraft from each base joining up as a sub-formation while flying a designated out and return leg, and then moving off to join the main formation. 8th and 9th AF Pathfinder Techniques; 'Synchronous Bombing The new 8th AF formation was first used with radar on 11 January, the 482nd (P