Cheshire as Master Bomber dropping 30lb incen- diaries from a Lancaster at 200ft right onto the target, the Gnome-Rhône engine factory at Limoges. Much of the factory was then destroyed by 12,000lb HC bombs dropped by Lancasters using SABS. A heavy bomber being ill-suited to dive-bombing, and vulnerable to AA fire at low level, on 5 April Cheshire began using a Mosquito. Later Cheshire dispensed with a navigator and used a long-range P-51 Mustang, with the markers on underwing racks. Cheshire was obliged to make his first mission in the P-51 without a practice flight, and with no previous experience - even in daylight - with a single-engined fighter. The 5-Group Visual Dive Marking reached its ultimate with the PFF 'false wind' technique adapted as 'Offset Marking'. To avoid them being destroyed or obscured by smoke from the bombing itself, the markers were deliberately dropped 400 yards upwind to the side. A 'false wind' correction for this offset was then calculated by the Master Bomber, and broadcast to the main force, to be allowed for in bomb aiming. No.5-Group's low-level marking set new standards for precision night attacks. But it was unsuitable for major raids on heavily defended targets (the main force having to orbit while the Master Bomber assessed and corrected the marking), nor for when there was low overcast. The Mosquito as a Strategic Bomber; 'Siren Tours' In December 1943, 2-Group Mosquito bombers had begun 'Flower' support operations, flying ahead of the main force to attack the night fighter airfields, while Mosquito intruders sought the night fighters themselves. Meanwhile, the Mosquito Mk.IV was adapted to carry a 4,000lb HC bomb in a bulged bomb bay, with a first operational drop on 23 251 February 1944, on Düsseldorf. Beginning on 13 April, and using 50gal drop-tanks to achieve the range, LNSF Mosquitos regularly carried 4,000lb bombs to Berlin, a greater bomb load over that distance than was achieved with the four-engined B-17. [Bennett, 195