crewman, and had less need of escorts. But the German use of fighter-bombers for high-level bombing had made no provision for achieving accuracy. Now the USAAF proposed using a tight formation of them, bombing accurately by means of a suitably equipped lead aircraft, all bombing when the leader bombed. A B-24 was tried for leading a formation of P-47s, but its low speed made the formation vulnerable to flak at the 24,000ft the laden P-47s could reach. Accordingly, a few P-38J Lightnings were converted as two-seat 'droop snoot' pathfinder lead aircraft, with a lengthened nose housing a bombardier and a Norden bombsight. Later a radar bombsight was added for raids through cloud cover. The first two 8th AF 'B-38' raids were made on 10 April 1944, by the 20th and 55th P-38 Groups with other P-38s as escorts, attacking airfields in France. Further missions followed, but were eventually phased out with the reducing threat to the heavy bombers. British Daylight Bombing Techniques For its new daylight bombing operations in June 1944, RAF Bomber Command transferred its night techniques. The target was marked as at night, and crews bombed individually, the raid being controlled by a Master Bomber. If cloud or smoke from the bombing or from defence smokescreens obscured the target and/or markers, later crews bombed blind using H2S, or even a Gee fix. The 239 British bombers flying at 18,000ft were judged too vulnerable to flak to use large USAAF-type tight formations, so loose 'gaggles' were normally used. But tight formations were judged practical at small scale, and in July 'Oboe Formation' and 'Gee-H Formation' were introduced for precision daylight/overcast bombing. This employed a tight group of six heavy bombers, led by an Oboe or Gee-H equipped aircraft, with 'bombing on the leader'. Range was limited by the leader flying at the lower altitude of the other bombers, but forward movement of mobile transmitters as the Allied troops advanced towards Germany eased this probl