tions were estab lished between the Army units in the field and the Luftwaffe's Ju87 units. To minimize the risk from fighters and AA, the intended use would be in surprise strikes with heavy fighter cover, releasing the bombs from higher altitude if the AA was severe. Just as the Germans were the best equipped for close support, so they were the best equipped to oppose its use by the enemy, the Army having a formidable light AA capability. The Soviets, soon to be at war with Finland, were also committed to close air support although the aircraft techniques and tactics were still experimental, and effective communications had not been devised. The Shturmovik was heavily armoured ground attack aircraft under development for low-level and shallow-dive attacks. The armour would make the Shturmovik less vulnerable to fighters or flak, and it was to prove a valuable tool against German forces who were well equipped with both. In Britain, there was RAF/Air Ministry opposition to providing close air support to the Army, which continued well into the war. There was no real framework of Army/RAF communications, and no system for directing fighters in an air cover role. No thought had been given to providing an armoured ground attack aircraft, and although the Henley dive-bomber was available, it had been diverted to target towing. The types which would be used over the battlefield were the Battle and Blenheim tactical light bombers, which were to prove highly vulnerable to both AA and fighters. In 1939, the US and Japan still had some time to review their positions. For the present, although its Air Corps was formally part of the Army, the US was not well placed for effective close support. The Japanese Army, however, was already at war in China, and had adopted close support using strafing and shallow dive-bombing by light bombers. albeit against the poorly-equipped Chinese forces. Interdiction 25 The intermediate bombing category was also the least controversial, although,