irst detailed casualty survey, classifying the types of injury sustained, and relating them to the cause (blast, fire, shrapnel, debris) and to proximity to the explosion; whereas blast bombs mostly left corpses intact, GP and especially fragmentation bombs often severed heads and limbs. The work was supported by experiments to observe the effects of explosions on live animals, causing some public concern when this became known. Later, in 1942, further work looked at the different casualty rates caused by six different types of German HE bomb, identifiable from shrapnel fragments and especially the tail fins. The conclusion was that, ton for ton, the smaller bombs (50kg) caused the most casualties in urban areas, by giving a greater spread of explosions. The RAF's trend remained towards heavier bombs, able to damage plant and equipment. [Zuckerman, 1978:134-7] A detailed study by Zuckerman and Dr J.Bernal, on the 111 effect of bombing on two typical cities (Hull and Birmingham) found no real evidence of civilian panic or loss of morale; but the report's conclusions were misread by Cherwell and later used to justify British area bombing of German cities. [Zuckerman, 1978:143] Ground-attack Developments and Operations Dive-bomber Developments In Germany, the new BZA-2 dive-bombing sight entered service on Ju88s. It incorporated an electro-mechanical calculator which used flight data to determine automatically the required release point for any dive angle and speed. Consistently accurate results were claimed. [Stahl, 1984:111] The Germans were still trying to adapt the Do217 as a dive-bomber, with wing-mounted slotted plates as an alternative to the original four-petal tail dive brake. But by autumn, the dive-bomber version had been abandoned. In the USSR, the Tu-2, designed by the Tupolev design bureau incarcerated in TsKB-29 Special Prison, was to operate as a dive-bomber as well as a conventional medium bomber. Like the Pe-2, it had underwing dive-brakes and a prone