nventional bombing questionable for close support, while also favouring the 'area bombing' of towns as against 'precision bombing' of key strategic targets. But while the British briefly contemplated requiring crews to reduce speed over the he target [Terraine, 1985:90], the problem was pushing the Germans towards dive-bombing as the alternative. Release of bombs during a very steep dive offered much greater accuracy, by removing the dependence on aircraft speed and altitude de and the weight/ drag of the bomb. Tried in World War One, it had been adopted afterwards by the US Navy as the most promising way of hitting moving ships at sea. But the dive-bomber had acquired few air force advocates, mainly because the dive and braked pull-out robbed it of both speed and altitude, giving greater vulnerability to fighters, and to AA and barrage balloons if it dived low. But a US Navy public display of dive-bombing had greatly impressed Germany's Ernst Udet. who advocated its adoption for the new Luftwaffe. This led first to the Ju87 Stuka and then to larger, longer range dive-bombers. Close Air Support 23 Ground attack in support of front line troops needed low-level bombing and strafing attacks against small targets. In the interwar period, light bombers had been used in 'air control' or 'air policing' operations against tribesmen equipped with small arms. But attacks against modern armoured ground forces were a tougher proposition. Although the time spent over enemy airspace was short, the bombers could be exposed to severe AA fire. But although 'attack' or 'assault' aircraft had appeared, in the late 1930s close support to ground troops often received little air force priority, indeed some air forces opposed it for political reasons - to distance themselves from possible subord- ination to army control. On the army side, even progressive tacticians, advocating highly mobile armoured warfare, saw little need for close air support. Thus Liddel Hart's writings made little m