ary 1940 five Whitleys were sent over Germany to investigate the ability to see and identify rivers, cooling towers, marshalling yards, etc. from different altitudes. One crew got lost, others reported some success in three-quarter moon conditions for altitudes up to 8,000ft. But searchlight dazzle made visibility much worse; if British night bombing caused the Germans to deploy more searchlights, the prospects for accurate bombing would deteriorate unless new aids could be provided. Hörnum; British and German use of Parachute Flares The first RAF night bombing raid, by 50 Whitley and Hampden bombers on the German seaplane base at Hörnum, Isle of Sylt, on 19 March 1940, was in retaliation for a Luftwaffe attack on Scapa Flow on 16 March. Using flares for illumination, 41 crews claimed to have bombed the target, but subsequent PR coverage showed little evidence of damage. In trying to use flares for ground identification,  C 94 1939-40 NIGHT BOMBING the RAF found that the dropping aircraft moved too far ahead of the illumination given by a standard 4.5-inch parachute flare. Various solutions were considered: use of several aircraft at intervals; use of flash bombs having much greater brightness, albeit of short duration; and use of an electrically ignited flare towed behind the aircraft rather than being dropped. Eventually a 5.5-inch parachute flare was developed, to give brighter, longer duration burning, but dropping at intervals by a series of aircraft was still needed. The Germans with their blind-bombing radio aids had less need of flares than the British. Nevertheless, the Luftwaffe introduced LC50 parachute flares for night raids on Britain. Probable first uses were: for position fixing, 5 June 1940 over Norwich; for target identification and illumination, 5 August over the Isle of Sheppey; and as route markers, 15 September over the North Sea. It became Luftwaffe practice to use red, green or yellow flares for route marking; and white flares for ground illum