, the Luftwaffe 1065. [Terraine, 1985:164] The German Offensive Against Britain With the fall of France, the Germans turned their attention to Britain. On 30 June 1940, attacks began on Channel shipping and ports, primarily to draw the British fighters into battle. The first major raid came on 10 July, some 70 German aircraft (Do17, Bf110, Bf109) attacking a convoy off Dover, the raid being picked up by the CH RDF system and countered by RAF fighters. For the British, this first major air engagement was counted as the start of the Battle of Britain. On 16 July, three German air fleets (Luftflotten) based across the Channel and North Sea, were assigned to a daylight offensive against Britain. This was the war's largest bombing campaign yet, and the first campaign intended to achieve victory by the use of air power alone. The objective was to destroy the British fighter force, to achieve air superiority over the Channel for Operation Seelöwe, the intended invasion of Britain. The RAF had been forced to give up daylight bombing in December 1939 because it was unable to provide long-range escort fighters. Now, the Luftwaffe began daylight bombing on a large scale, with escorted missions against south-east England from airfields 85 in Northern France, limited by the short range of the Bf109 escorts. The War of Attrition over Britain On 12 August 1940, the Germans began their raids against RAF Fighter Command's airfields, control centres and installations in south-east England. The forward fighter airfields at Manston, Hawkinge and Lympne were seriously hit; a force of Ju87s penetrated the balloon barrage at the naval base at Portsmouth; and for the first time, the Luftwaffe attacked the British early warning radar system. Five CH stations were damaged, that at Ventnor being put out of action for 11 days. Adlerangriff, the all-out effort against Britain on 13 August, was disrupted by poor weather. The really big attack came on the 15th, with over 2,000 sorties and for the