tion, but a nose-mounted IR identification system ('Liquid Lunch') was also fitted to bombers to avoid blind-fire AGLT attacks from other bombers. Plagued by technical problems, the AGLT saw limited service on Lancasters late in the European War. The US system was the GE-developed AN/APG-15B, with a scanner in a ball-shaped radome below the triple 0.5-inch gun tail turret. It was introduced on the B-29B Superfortress in April 1945, but it too was to prove troublesome, especially failing to lock-on after searching, and it saw little combat use by the end of the war. 259 Weapon Developments The British Terrell Rocket Bomb; US Operational Use In Britain, the Terrell CP/RA rocket-assisted bomb was developed under Cmdr E.Terrell of the British Admiralty, primarily for use against German U-boat shelters. It was a long, slim 4,500lb weapon incorporating nineteen 3-inch rockets for propulsion to supersonic speed, the rockets being ignited barometrically at 5,000ft. The RAF - committed to the 'Tallboy' - opposed development of the rocket bomb, so the US 8th AF was co-opted to test and use it. A B-17 could carry two, under the wings. Trial drops showed good transonic stability, and little trajectory deviation under rocket thrust. The few operational missions were flown by B-17s of the US 92nd BG under code-name 'Disney', two against the E-boat pens at Ijmuiden in Holland on 10 February and 14 March, the third against the U-boat assembly plant at Farge on 30 March. The bombs were dropped from 20,000ft, some penetrating through 4m of concrete to explode below. On 14 July, US A-20s made the first use of rocket bombs in the Pacific theatre, with Mk.50s against the Boela oilfields. The British 'Grand Slam' Earthquake Bomb; the Japanese Ko-Dan Rubber Bomb When the Germans increased the thickness of concrete protecting major installations in response to the Tallboy, the British developed the full Barnes Wallis bomb, the 25ft 6in long, 22,000lb MC or DP/HE 'Grand Slam'. To carry this