ields. The Germans themselves improvised night bombing, but it seems with little success, due to crew inexperience with flares and markers. After Alamein, under Operation 'Chocolate' the British operated two Hurricane squadrons from an abandoned airfield far behind enemy lines, supplying them by air. Until Luftwaffe attention made the operation untenable, these made attacks on Rommel's forces who were far in the rear and thought themselves out of range of the RAF. For rapid movement from one newly created airfield to another as ground forces advanced, the British (and later the Americans) adopted a 'two-party system'. Ground support was split into A and B parties. The aircraft operated from the current base under A party, while B party moved forward to prepare at the new airfield. The aircraft then flew to the new base while A party prepared to leapfrog to the next site. [Rust, 1970:20] Paris; Dieppe - Failed Implementation of Close Support; Smokescreens In a salute to occupied Paris, on 12 June 1942 F/L A.K.Gatward flew an RAF Beaufighter at very low level up the Champs-Elysées, dropping tricolore flags at the Arc de Triomphe and shooting up the Kriegsmarine HQ. On 19 August, the RAF mounted its largest tactical air operation to date, for the extraordinary Operation 'Jubilee' amphibious landings at Dieppe, which ended in withdrawal after heavy casualties to Canadian troops. To help protect the landings, withdrawals and air support operations from the German defences, the RAF's 2 Group bombers provided smokescreens by two methods. Beauforts with SCI canisters flew in line astern along the beaches laying smoke 147 curtains; evasive action was not practical and a number of these aircraft were lost. Other Beauforts and Blenheims dropped 100lb rectangular-can phosphorus smoke bombs in front of known AA and coastal defence gun positions, to provide more persistent local screening; the smoke bombs contained a phosphorus compound which generated smoke on exposure to air. F