ay, the landings received little air support against ground opposition, while communications and support thereafter also remained poor. Later air strikes were confined largely to inland interdiction, including the 'asinine' [Fuller, 1948:266] destruction of towns and villages, obstructing the Allied advance. Allied fighter-bombers also repeatedly attacked Allied units, despite pre-arranged recog- nition signals; incensed US troops deliberately shot down one attacking P-38. Further, while there were four destructive raids on Messina, there was no bombing of the access roads and landing sites to disrupt the Axis evacuation to Italy, while bombing of the ferry fleet was wholly ineffective; barrage balloons and flak ships kept the fighter-bombers high. Some 10,000 vehicles and 119,000 troops were evacuated, with only one soldier killed by Allied air attack. [D'Este, 1988:514] Allied Operations in Italy; 'Cab Rank' Close Support The invasion of Italy in September was preceded by widespread bombing of railways and airfields, plus RAF night raids on Milan, Turin and Genoa. Although communications had improved little, carrier-based, DAF and US aircraft provided effective close support for the landings at Reggio di Calabria, Taranto and Salerno. The Germans could offer little air opposition, and the weather quickly became the main operational problem - overcast cloud, rain, and mud on the airfields. On 8 September, 131 B-17s of the 15th AF attacked Kesselring's Army HQ at Frascati, destroying much of the town but putting the HQ out of action for only six hours. On the 13th, a German counter-attack against the Salerno bridgehead led to a bomb carpet laid by Allied bombers north and south of the area; the ruins of Pompeii became more so. By the 15th, Kittyhawk fighter-bombers were operating from Italian airfields. In November, the DAF implemented a 'Rover David' rapid-response version of the close-support system. Instead of waiting to be scrambled, the Kittyhawk fighter-bomber