each drop being tracked and filmed. Rather than have the aircraft continue forward in the same direction as the bomb as it curved downwards, bomb release had to be followed immediately by a 155-degree high 'g' diving turn at full power, calculated to take the aircraft the greatest distance (seven miles) from the explosion point at the instant of detonation. In December, the 393rd and its support units became the 509th Composite Group. Daylight Bombing Operations Allied Tactical/ Precision Raids: V-weapon Sites; Cass- ino; Mosquito Raids In December 1943, the 'Crossbow Committee' invoked heavy Allied bombing of the huge new German Fi103 (later V-1) and A-4 (later V-2) weapon sites (code-named 'No-Ball'), aided by trials on replicas built in Florida. But in 1944, the Germans changed to much simpler 'modified' launch sites for the V-1, in woodland and camouflaged; plus a wholly mobile launch system for the V-2. Systematic air strikes were made on the V-1 sites. But the mobility of the V-2 units made attacks on them difficult; Spitfire fighter-bombers were sent to search for and attack them, with little success. Their elimination came with the advance of Allied ground forces. The huge underground Mittelwerke GmbH V-2 production facility near Niedersachswerfen was judged an impractical target even for a Tallboy, and the site was never bombed, even though vital power and other installations were above ground. The first major Allied use of heavy bombers for direct support to ground troops came in Italy on 15 February, with the controversial US 15th AF attack on the fortress-like mountain-top Benedictine monastery of Monte Cassino. Bombing by formations of 142 B-17s and 87 medium bombers destroyed the monastery, which Allied forces 241 believed (erroneously) was being used as a stronghold by German troops. Heavy bombing of the town of Cassino followed, converting it to rubble and craters which provided defensive positions for the Germans while hampering any Allied advance -