where the rainwater collected then froze the bomb doors shut and locked the turrets in one position; almost half the crews aborted the mission. The intensely cold and rarefied upper atmosphere was also a hazard for the crews, since the aircraft were unpressurized and unheated, with open windows through which guns were fired. Fur-lined clothing was provided, plus oxygen including in portable flasks to enable movement within the aircraft. But the oxygen masks could freeze up from breath moisture or the supply be damaged by gunfire. The electrically heated suits were unreliable and the aircraft's electrical system could not power one for every crewman. As a result, after spring 1943, when aircrews began receiving personal body protection in the form of 'flak vests' of canvas with overlapping steel plates, often more men were disabled by anoxia and frostbite than by battle wounds. US Leaflet Operations; the 'Leaflet Bomb' Whereas RAF Bomber Command gave low priority to leaflets, the 8th AF assigned two squadrons of B-17s solely to leaflet raids, plus two aircraft per squadron carrying leaflets while accompanying the rest of the force on bombing raids. In September 1943, B-17s of the 305th BG began night leaflet raids. But carried in external boxes and released from 25,000ft, the leaflets could scatter up to 100 miles from the intended drop zone. Use of bundles fastened with a barometric release did not work well. But a more satisfactory Monroe T-2 'leaflet bomb' was introduced in 1944, the cylindrical case being opened by a time fuse towards the end of the drop. The 'Bumph Bomb' was eventually adopted by the British as well. 8th Air Force Bombing Techniques; AFCE; Pathfinders The preferred 8th AF method was direct visual bombing in clear weather. With the bombardier training the Norden 191 bombsight on the AP (Aiming Point), the required course corrections were signalled on the pilot's display. When the target was obscured by partial cloud, 'grid bombing' and a stopwatc