titude (lead, high, and low), the three squadrons flying in a similar asymmetric arrowhead, arranged the opposite way to the element, as the standard 'combat box'. To help build the formation, each Group lead crew used Aldis lamp signalling, and a flare pistol to fire a two-colour flare combination. To minimize the risk of bomb hits on other aircraft over the target, where the tracks of the three squadrons converged at their different altitudes, LeMay insisted on formation bombing, all bombardiers in each squadron releasing their bombs on seeing the lead aircraft's bombs fall. If the lead aircraft was shot down, an adjacent aircraft was required to move into the lead position. The German Ju86R-2 High-altitude Bomber, and Countermeasures In 1942, the Germans converted a few Junkers Ju86Ps to an even higher altitude version, the Ju86R, with very long span tapered wings, a pressure cabin, and diesel engines with turbosuperchargers and nitrous oxide injection. Two Ju86R-2 bombers, the first operational bombers with a pressure cabin, were assigned to III/KG6 at Beauvais, to fly solitary daylight raids over Britain at more than 40,000ft, each carrying just one 250kg bomb. The raids began on 24 159 August, and were intended as 'siren tours' to cause disruption, but the British eschewed air-raid warnings for a single raider. Standard fighters tried to get up to the intruders, but stalled and fell, a USAAF P-38 getting closest. But the British hurriedly set up a special unit at Northolt with two stripped and cleaned Spitfire IXs. At the second attempt, on 12 September the highest interception of the war was achieved. The Ju86R crew, surprised to find a fighter at their altitude, jettisoned the bomb, depressurized the cabin for safety and tried to outclimb the Spitfire. The bomber was hit, but managed to escape when one of the fighter's cannon jammed and the recoil from the other caused the fighter to slew and stall. Thereafter, the high-altitude sorties were suspended except