w airstrips 15 to 30km from the Front (with main supply dumps at a safer 250km), set up observation posts, introduced mobile service/repair units, and began a more offensive approach. Il-2s flew short-range sorties from bases close to the Front. in groups of 4 up to 12 aircraft. Typically, the Soviet pilots flew over the front line to one side of the target, then turned and attacked while heading back towards their own lines. Whereas the Germans used precision dive attacks, the Soviets mostly relied on dispersed coverage of fragmen- tation bombs and strafing over the target area. [Piekalkie- wicz, 1985:223] Gradually, the Luftwaffe operations in the USSR became more and more orientated to close support of the Army, increasingly in trouble against Soviet iet ground forces. He111 and Ju88 bombers were committed in low-level attacks, with predictable results; the medium bombers were more prone to accidents when operating from the small temporary strips 145 on the Eastern Front, and they were easier targets for the increasing Soviet light flak. In addition, those lost represented a greater drain in matériel and crews. The German ability to mount long-range bomber operations was declining. German and Soviet Night Ground-attack Developments By 1942, German close support air operations against the Red Army included the night dropping of flares to illuminate Soviet positions, so aiding nearby German Army units to bombard them using mortars and artillery. Later, the success of the Soviet night harassment units led the Germans to set up Störkampfstaffeln in a similar role. Aircraft used were obsolete and training aircraft, including the Heinkel He45 two-seat biplane and the Henschel Hs126, with machine guns and small bombs (10kg HE, incendiary and fragmentation). On the Soviet side, a directive in October ordered each ground attack and fighter regiment to begin training five crews for night operations. Il-2s went on to make over 400 night sorties in the defence of Stalingrad.