to be used for ground attack. Examples include: the PZL P-23 Karas (Poland, 1934); Vickers Wellesley and Fairey Battle (Britain, 1935 and 1936. respectively); and the Mitsubishi Ki-30 and Kawasaki Ki-32 (Japan, 1937). The Fairey Battle, of which the RAF had over 1,000 on strength at the start of the war, epitomized the inadequacy of these aircraft. Although of clean design and with the same engine as the Hurricane fighter, it had a crew of three and was much bigger, heavier and less manoeuvrable than a Hurricane. It was vulnerable to light AA, while the 0.303-inch gun on a flexible mount in the rear cockpit offered little defence against a modern fighter. Ground-attack Aircraft Low-level attacks against troops, tanks, etc. by bombing and 33 strafing were the province of the 'Attack' or 'Assault' aircraft, but there was little agreement on the need for such aircraft, or their size and configuration, or the importance of speed of attack versus manoeuvrability and precision. Interest in purpose-built aircraft in the USA (Curtiss A-12 Shrike, Northrop A-17) and Italy (Breda 65) had declined in favour of more conventional bombers. Mostly the role was now expected to fall to light bombers having little forward-firing armament (one token machine gun on the Battle) or to better-armed heavy fighters (eight machine guns or four 20mm cannon on the Fokker G.I) but still with little or no tank's armour. Fitting bomb-racks to single- engine fighters had been tried, including in Spain, but not adopted; and the term 'fighter-bomber' tended to be applied to heavy fighters having a bomb bay rather than to a ground-attack aircraft as such. Probably the Soviets had devoted the most effort to ground-attack aircraft and techniques, although they had little to show for it in 1939. Their developments had included: the 8-gun Polikarpov R-2 armoured biplane; large-calibre recoilless cannon, (76mm DRP-76, and 102mm APK-100); the Archangelskii/TsAGI ANT-29 ground-attack aircraft of 1935 with t