h also, the RAF took delivery of the first six Blenheims equipped with the primitive AI Mk.I radar; at this time no other country was developing radar night fighters, the real answer to the night bomber. In the coming war, a successful bombing offensive could need some neutralization of the enemy's radar defence system, via intelligence and some form of countermeasure. But the intelligence aspect was failing badly. In 1938. German Feldmarschall Erhard Milch mentioned the radio detection of aircraft while in Britain, and later showed French Air Force officers a German radar set. The Germans routed Lufthansa airliners over the masts of the British CH stations, and in the summer of 1939 used the rigid airship LZ130 Graf Zeppelin II to make two radio monitoring cruises off Britain's coast. But neither Britain nor Germany entered the war with any real appreciation that the other side might have operational radar. However, at least in Britain there were some who were looking at ways of countering radar. Dr R.V. Jones in 1937 noted that radar could be jammed by distributing foil strips or wires in the air as reflectors (the future 'Window'). And in 1938, RCM (Radio CounterMeasures) work under Dr E.C. Williams included the successful airborne noise jamming of CH radars using a hospital diathermy set installed in a Sunderland flying boat.  Cano II 1939-40 56 57 BOMBER DEVELOPMENTS Bomber Developments The first 16 months of the war brought a flood of new bombers. Those making their first flights in the last months of 1939 included: the Handley Page Halifax (Britain, 24 September), the RAF's second four-engined heavy bomber, without the span restriction of the Stirling and therefore enjoying higher performance; the Mitsubishi G4M twin- engined land-based naval medium bomber (Japan, 23 October), with high fuel capacity for exceptionally long range, but vulnerable; the unorthodox Heinkel He177 vi four-engined heavy bomber (Germany, 19 November); the Piaggio P.108B (for Bombardie