s from Europe was being considered. Initially, one-way raids were proposed, the bomber crew having to ditch at a pre-arranged spot in the Atlantic on the way back, for rescue by submarine. Later, submissions were invited for a bomber with an unrefuelled Europe-USA round-trip range. The project submissions offered were the Me264 and developments of the Fw300 and Ju290.  60 61 WEAPON DEVELOPMENTS 1939-40 Bomber Rear Defence; Deterrent Weapons In the absence of a rear turret on smaller bombers, fixed rear-firing gun installations were tried: e.g. a 'stinger' tail gun on the Heinkel He111H and Mitsubishi Ki-21-1b; twin guns in the rear of each nacelle on the Douglas A-20A; and on some Martin Baltimores, a ventral group of four guns angled slightly down and out. Later, rear 'scare-guns' were tried in the nacelles of a Mosquito, and the Ar234 was given a rear-fuselage pair of 20mm cannon. Mostly, such guns could be fired by the pilot sighting via a mirror/periscope and manoeuvring the bomber until the fighter was directly to the rear. Unfortunately this gave the fighter a simple no-deflection shot, at a bigger target, and usually with far greater fire power. As an alternative to rear guns, the French had experimented with catapulting time-fused grenades rear- wards into the path of attacking fighters. Now, in 1940, some German bombers carried SKAV launchers for this task, the 0.5kg grenade being dropped down a chute and ejected rearwards by compressed air; a small parachute deployed to slow the grenade, to open up a safe distance from the bomber before detonating. Other rear defence /deterrent devices tried by the Germans apparently included a towed kite and a rear-firing flame thrower. 'Scarecrow' devices used by Japanese crews early in the Pacific War included a firecracker filled with flash-producing pellets and hand thrown from the bomber; and an inert weight tied to a small paper parachute, hand thrown in clusters into the path of the fighter. Other ploys tried by bo