d by the violent thermal updraughts, crews could feel the intense heat, and some vomited at the stench of burning flesh. The death toll was 78,660 in the official Japanese estimate, probably nearer 130,000 in reality. Fourteen B-29s were lost to AA. The raid was watched by Gen. T. Power in a loitering observation B-29, carrying full armament but no bombs. Further fire-bombing raids followed, against Nagoya on 11 and 18 March, Osaka (by radar) on 13 March, and Kobe on 16 March; the 21st AF then ran out of bombs, but only temporarily. Japanese civilian morale declined, and mass evacuations began, when on 27 July the Americans started dropping leaflets given prior announcements of their next targets. Ground Attack Against most predictions of the mid-1930s, ground attack and especially close support operations became one of the war's most important uses of air power. It took various forms, from the Soviet light night harassment bombers, to the RAF's wide-roaming rocket-firing Beaufighters and Mosquitos, and even the use of heavy bombers against troop concentrations. At the outbreak of the European war, only the Germans had acquired an effective close support capability, used spectacularly in the German army's early Blitzkrieg offensives. After Barbarossa, the Soviets acquired the aircraft and eventually the communications for close support, and used it on a large scale. For their part, the British and the Americans gradually changed from outright opposition to major commitment, and developed ground attack to a high peak of effectiveness which came to be relied on. Late in the war, Allied ground troops were reluctant to move forward without prior heavy air attacks ahead of them. [Carrington, 1987:194] The main vehicles for ground attack were: first the dive-bomber adopted by the Germans, relying on altitude, plus a steep dive fo for accuracy; then the Soviet Shturmovik, relying on armour for survival; and finally the fighter- bomber, relying on speed in sweeping low-leve