e accurate back-up marking. Later, the British introduced the Jordan Trainer for training Master Bombers. To represent a position orbiting a German city under night attack, the trainee sat in darkness in a bomber cockpit, high above an elaborate revolving model of a city, the model using lights, steam and pyrotechnics to simulate defences, marking, cloud and smoke. For the USAAF, daylight bomber crew training, with its great need for gunnery expertise, included novel approaches to gunnery training. These ranged from the use of truck-mounted turrets for firing at targets as the truck sped past, to a purpose-built gunnery training aircraft (Fairchild AT-21). Also, 1943 saw the introduction of RP-63A 'live target' conversions of Bell P-63 Kingcobra fighters. These 'Pin-Ball Targets', which flashed lights to record a hit, were given thick skins, armour plate and bullet-proof glazed areas. They were used in simulated attacks on bombers, the gunners firing at them with a lightweight frangible practice ammunition. US 'Wing-tip Escort' Bomber Conversions US prototype four-engined heavy 'wing-tip escort' fighters, the Lockheed Vega XB-40 and Convair XB-41 - conversions of a B-17F and a B-24D - appeared in 1943. Compared with the normal bomber version, each carried additional armour, 16 guns, twice the ammunition, and special supply tracks to feed ammunition to the waist and tail positions. There was a plan for the other bombers to be fitted with additional, dummy, gun installations to mislead the enemy fighter pilots. Thirteen YB-40s were built, apparently with up to 30 179 guns in some cases. The 8th AF 92nd Bomb Group flew the first YB-40 mission in a raid on St Nazaire on 27 May. But the YB-40s proved to be too heavy, tail heavy, slow and unmanoeuvrable, and unable even to defend themselves adequately. They were withdrawn in August. Long-range Single-engine Escort Fighters; the P-51B Mustang Belatedly, in 1943 the Allies began using fighters with drop tanks for extended s