de, a directive in October ordered each ground attack and fighter regiment to begin training five crews for night operations. Il-2s went on to make over 400 night sorties in the defence of Stalingrad. By this time, Soviet use of ground radio direction of fighter operations had been extended to cover ground-attack operations as well. Elsewhere, Britain's SOE Lysander 'special duties' aircraft were at times used in small night bombing attacks on rail and power targets in France, using machine guns and small bombs attached to stub wings on the u/c fairings. In June, RAF Bostons and Mosquitos began night intruder operations, bombing and strafing German airfields. North Africa Innovations: Mine Clearing; Night Attacks on Tanks Ground attack in North Africa saw several innovations in 1942. Among the improvisations: a Bf109 fighter dangling a bomb on a rope, its pilot trying to hit British tanks with it as he flew across the battlefield; and a US Navy floatplane pilot destroying three German tanks by dropping depth charges on them. In June, opening the Afrika Korps' drive against Tobruk, Rommel used Ju87 dive-bombers to clear pathways through the British minefields, each bomb explosion detonating a number of mines around it.  1942 146 GROUND-ATTACK OPERATIONS After the Afrika Korps' failure in the Battle of Alam Halfa on 31 August, through the following night the RAF mounted attacks on the German tanks and vehicles, relays of Albacore biplanes dropping flares to provide illumination for bomb and cannon strikes by other, low-flying aircraft. For the first time in the war, tanks were attacked from the air by night and day. [Bidwell and Graham, 1982:269] Later, flares and even truck headlights were used for US P-40s to take-off in darkness for surprise dawn strikes on German airfields. The Germans themselves improvised night bombing, but it seems with little success, due to crew inexperience with flares and markers. After Alamein, under Operation 'Chocolate' the British opera