re under development. For their part, the Germans were mainly equipped with 50 and 250kg GP 47 bombs, but had a 500kg bomb as well, plus AP bombs in all three sizes. During the war, the British especially were to pursue much larger bombs. Incendiary Bombs Bombs intended to destroy buildings, stores, etc. by generating fire were commonly in service, although their limited use in World War One had given little indication of the destruction they would wreak in World War Two. Typically, they contained an incendiary compound or mixture, e.g. white phosphorus (lethal - being liable to burn flesh through to the bone - but accepted for smoke and for incendiaries) or thermite (aluminium and iron oxide) which would ignite the magnesium case. Mostly they were small, and dropped in cluster containers which released them at lower altitude to provide limited spread over the target area. The standard German incendiary was the 1kg B1El (Brandbomb, 1kg, Elektron) dating from the end of World War One. The B1EIZA version incorporated a delayed action explosive charge to deter firefighters. The BSK36 canister carried 36 of the bomblets, held by a tie rod between end plates, with mid-air release by a clockwork mechanism. The British had recently introduced an RAE-developed 4lb magnesium bomb, later copied for the US forces as the M50. It was hexagon-shaped, for ease of stacking, and for most of the war was to be carried in SBCs (Small Bomb Containers) which remained in the bomb bay, allowing the incendiaries to scatter too widely. Guided and Glide-bombs A glide-bomb, having wings for aerodynamic lift, offered increased aircraft safety by allowing launching further away from an AA-defended target; a guided bomb, having control surfaces able to alter the trajectory under remote or homing control, offered improved accuracy; a guided glide-bomb promised both. Such categories of bomb had received spasmodic development. Wire-guided gliders had been tested by the Siemens-Schuckert Werke in 191