rence for the initial markers if they were still visible. Blind Dropping of Target Indicators; Night Raid Colour Photography Blind dropping of TIs was code-named 'Paramatta'. Blind dropping using Oboe was named 'Musical Paramatta'. It was first used in a raid on Düsseldorf on 27 January, the Oboe Mosquito dropping a salvo of four TIs, with back-up marking by other aircraft. On that raid the glow of the TIS could be seen through the 10/10ths cloud layer. Reportedly. Hitler refused to believe that the RAF could mark and bomb accurately through continuous cloud, and accused his Air Staff of falsifying their reports. [Musgrove, 1976:26] Blind dropping of TIs using H2S was named 'H2S Paramatta', first used by PFF Stirling and Halifax bombers in a raid on Hamburg on 30 January. This was the first operational use of the H2S ground-imaging radar, which for the first time allowed blind bombing or marking at any range, free from 199 any constraints from ground stations. But with its poor image resolution, the 10cm H2S was better used for blind dropping of proximity flares to allow a visual search for the target before marking with TIs. The RAF now needed colour film for night raid photography, to show the locations achieved with the various coloured TIs. With the Kodakolor film insufficiently sensitive to show ground detail also, 'composite film' strips were adopted: two frames of colour to show the TIs, 10 of normal monochrome to show ground detail. Meanwhile, some bombers occasionally carried movie cameras to record complete passes over the target area, some with colour film. Since the Mosquito had no facility for dropping photo- flashes, a special TI was devised to allow Oboe Mosquito crews to photograph their marking. This 'TI Flash' replaced 20 of the 60 candles with a photoflash which ignited two seconds after the TI burst. A Mosquito crew used a TI Flash to achieve the highest night photo of the war, Osnabrück from 36,000ft on 18 April 1944. German Decoys: Target Indic