and later also 5 Group, were in fact developing a range of techniques for finding and visually marking targets in night raids. The emphasis was on ground marking by coloured pyrotechnic marker bombs, dropping them visually, using the light from parachute flares, or blindly using radio/radar aids. The British 'TI' (Target Indicator) marker bomb was first used on the night of 16 January 1943 in the RAF's first raid  1943 198 NIGHT TARGET MARKING DEVELOPMENTS on Berlin since 1941. Designed to appear distinctively different from incendiary or other fires, the TI used a 2501b LC bomb case to house sixty 12-inch pyrotechnic candles. With barometric ejection and ignition in mid-air, the candles cascaded to the ground like a spectacular firework Christmas tree, burning for some three minutes. Red, green, yellow or white candles were available. Later, the 250lb 'Red Spot Fire' type was introduced, able to burn for ten minutes with an intense crimson flame; and then green and yellow versions. The Spot Fire was conspicuous and much less likely to be obscured by smoke than were the distributed small candles of the normal TI. For use with Oboe (which needed six minutes for a back-up Oboe drop), TIs were later modified as 'LBTIs' (LB for Long Burning) having time delays for some candles. For greater accuracy against small targets, non-cascading TIs of both candle type and white-burning magnesium type were later introduced, some incorporating small explosive charges to deter fire fighters. The TI colours used were varied to keep the defence forces guessing. However, yellow TIs were preferred as 'long stops to indicate the limit of the target area, and to 'cancel' inaccurately laid markers. 'Back-up' markers were normally of a different colour, and crews were instructed to aim in preference for the initial markers if they were still visible. Blind Dropping of Target Indicators; Night Raid Colour Photography Blind dropping of TIs was code-named 'Paramatta'. Blind dropping using Oboe