UND-ATTACK DEVELOPMENTS Allied Bombing Attempts in Response to the German Blitzkrieg The Allied air attempts to counter the German May offensive quickly showed how unfit the aircraft, techniques and training were, the response being severely hampered by lack of preparation, disrupted communications, liaison failures, and the general enemy superiority and speed. Initial daylight low-level raids were unescorted because of the confusion. In the first such attack, made on the first day against Guderian's panzer columns, which were well protected by light flak and fighter cover, 13 out of the 32 RAF Fairey Battles were shot down, the rest all damaged. Belgian Aéronautique Militaire Battles and RAF Blenheims also suffered heavy losses even when escorted; and on the 12th when the French finally managed to mount their first bombing raid, 8 out of 18 Breguet 693 bombers were shot down. This result virtually ended low-level daylight bombing by the Allies. On the 13th, the German crossing of the Meuse at Sedan, supported by some 1,500 aircraft, was unopposed by Allied air power. Thereafter, although improvised dive-bombing was attempted, mostly the Blenheims and the French bombed from higher altitude, the Battles at night. This reduced losses, but resulted in ineffective bombing against the (generally small) targets, especially for the night bombing Battles because the crews, unable to see their targets, dropped their tiny (50lb) bombs at the ETA (estimated time of arrival) over the target, despite orders to the contrary. Dunkirk When the remaining Allied forces were cut off on the Channel coast at Dunkirk late in May, the Panzers halted. Hitler acceding to Göring's proposal that the final blow be carried out by the Luftwaffe. Fog kept Fliegerkorps VIII's dive-bombers grounded for three days. But on 27 May, German bombers dropped 2,000 tons of bombs on Dunkirk itself, destroying harbour installations and much of the town, and killing over 1,000 civilians. Many other raids were