ccuracy of the British night bombing, in November 1940 RAF Bomber Command was given the first PR (Photo-Reconnaissance) unit, 3PRU, to be dedicated to raid damage assessment. Equipped with long-range Spitfire PR Mk.1C aircraft, the unit was required to overfly and photograph the target area in daylight, after the previous night's attack. For close detail, a long focal length lens was used. Two camera-equipped Wellingtons  Ca 1939-40 72 GROUND-ATTACK OPERATIONS were also acquired and used for trials with night flare PR assessment of bomb damage. German and British Air-sea Rescue Developments With the increasing numbers of overwater raids, the provision of survival equipment to aircrew and the making of determined efforts to rescue aircrew from the sea, became recognized as essential for morale as well as for minimizing losses of trained personnel. Initially only the Germans had a dedicated ASR service, using search aircraft and pick-up launches, later moored 'life buoys'; in May 1940, the British started building one also. German military aircraft carried life jackets, and a dinghy equipped with a radio transmitter, coloured flares, a Very pistol, and a container of fluorescine dye to stain the water green to aid searches. When ditching, Ju87 crews were the worst off; if they baled out the dinghy stayed with the aircraft, whereas if they remained on board they were unlikely to survive the nose down somersault and break up as the fixed undercarriage dug into the water. Built-in flotation bags, inflating automatically by pressure switch at water entry to keep the aircraft afloat, were introduced first on Do17 bombers; and automatic SOS radio beacons were fitted to dinghies. RAF bombers were fitted with a dinghy stowed in the wing, releasable by hand or automatically if the aircraft sank. The bombers also carried 'Mae West life-jackets, and a pair of carrier pigeons which, in the event of radio failure when ditching, could be released with a note giving the location. Gr