flash which ignited two seconds after the TI burst. A Mosquito crew used a TI Flash to achieve the highest night photo of the war, Osnabrück from 36,000ft on 18 April 1944. German Decoys: Target Indicators; the Mythical 'Scarecrow' The Germans introduced two types of decoy TI to divert bomber crews away from the real markers. A simple ground-burning type was followed by a rocket-launched version, fired up from the ground to burst and cascade down like the real TI. The decoys were weaker in colour, with a shorter burn time, but were sufficiently like the real TIs to cause problems. As a countermeasure of sorts, PFF crews at times fired Very pistols to indicate when the real markers were being released. But in the coming months RAF crews repeatedly reported bombing red TIs when none had been dropped. Eventually, the Germans also introduced 'Spot Fire' decoys. By autumn 1943, RAF bomber crews were reporting a new German deception device, fired to the bomber stream's height and then exploding to simulate a bomber falling in flames. Apparently intended to scare crews, these 'scarecrows' became accepted in Bomber Command reports. But post-war research failed to find evidence of the Germans having such a device, and it seems that the British crews  1943 200 were probably seeing bombers themselves exploding, as a result of unseen Schräge Musik attacks. [Middlebrook, 1982:174] However there were reports of scarecrows being seen during missions when no bombers were lost. [W.E. Jones, 1983:98] Use of Proximity Flares ('Newhaven'); Re-marking to Avoid 'Creepback' The PFF adopted the code-name 'Newhaven' for dropping flares in the target area to try visually to identify the target itself for marking. The flares were standard 4.5-inch type. time-fused to pull the pyrotechnic from its container, deplov the parachute and ignite the flare, which burned for three minutes with a red or green light. Later a type which ejected 'stars' of a different colour (green, orange or red) was int