ity to precision attacks on key strategic targets when the weather permitted. Favoured targets were ones the Germans would be forced to defend, notably oil plants and aircraft factories. The result was the greatest air battle of the war, in which the German losses mounted steeply, and the inadequate training of replacement pilots left the Luftwaffe even less able to  1944 242 DAYLIGHT BOMBING OPERATIONS counter the US bombers and fighters. US daylight bomber losses again dropped below the RAF's night losses. On 7 May, the 8th AF mounted its first 1,000-bomber combin- ation of raids. The Allied Railway/Transportation Plan The Axis reliance on rail transport for troops and supplies made railways desirable targets for Allied attack. But with bridges difficult to hit with high-level bombing, Britain's Dr Zuckerman had advocated instead systematic attacks on railway centres, to destroy their stores, rolling stock and repair facilities. For the Allied invasion of Sicily and Italy in 1943, southern Italy's rail system had been 'practically paralysed' by the bombing of just six main rail centres. [Zuckerman, 1978:245] But the later 'Operation Strangle' interdiction against the much larger rail network in north Italy was less successful because of the scale of operations needed to outpace repair work. Despite opposition from British and US bomber chiefs, and fears of civilian casualties, in March 1944 Allied heavy bombers were diverted to attacks on 93 rail targets in France and the Low Countries to support the Normandy invasion. Belatedly, fighter-bombers were used successfully against the · rail bridges. The total effort (66,517 tons of bombs) was criticized as wasteful, but in two months rail traffic dropped by almost 80 per cent, making this 'Transportation Plan' a major factor in the survival of the Allied bridgehead in Normandy. By June, the US 15th AF was striking at the Rumanian and Hungarian rail systems, to aid the Soviets. But an Allied 'Transportation Plan' for G