ng through an effective second half of a loop, releasing the bombs at 40 degrees using the Revi gunsight; or more usually, flying to one side of the target and making a banked turning dive so as to keep the target in view all the time. Attacks involved dropping HE bombs, and SD2 and SD4 cluster bombs; and making strafing runs. On the Eastern Front, attacks were made on columns of Soviet tanks crossing the frozen Odessa river, 250kg bombs being dropped to destroy the tanks or break the ice so that the tanks fell through. Air Support to the Crossing of the Rhine During March 1945, the Germans assigned available aircraft (including Me262s, Ar234s, Mistel composites, and even V-2 ballistic missiles) to a desperate effort to destroy the US-held Remagen bridge over the Rhine. Operation 'Varsity', the Allied airborne crossing of the Rhine on 24 March was accompanied by large-scale use of air power. Fighter- and medium bombers cut railway lines in 41 places, the 8th AF attacked all enemy airfields within fighter range of the crossing, and the 8th AF and RAF Bomber Command carried out heavy attacks on rail centres. To protect the air transport armada, RAF Typhoons were assigned to seeking and attacking the local flak positions, which were well camouflaged. The technique adopted was to fly at 2,000ft in spaced pairs along the Rhine; if AA guns opened up at the first pair, the second pair could spot the location of the flashes and puffs of smoke, and dive for a rocket attack. On the day itself, the 8,200 sorties flown between dawn and dusk included many by 2TAF and 9th AF medium bombers, then Typhoons again, against flak positions. But there were around 1,000 AA guns; most survived, and many gliders were hit.  1945 270 DAYLIGHT BOMBING Allied Air Support in Italy In Italy on 21 March, DAF Thunderbolts, Mustangs and Kittyhawks carried out Operation 'Bowler' at Venice, destroying AA positions and then attacking warehouses and shipping. Precision bombing was essential to avoid da