fuselage) and the Bf110C (two 250kg bombs below the fuselage). The Jabos began operations against shipping in July, and in small low-level raids on Britain on 5 September. The small and fast Bf109 was so successful that every Jagdgeschwader soon acquired a Bf109 Jabo Staffel. Bombs were dropped in low-level passes or dives at up to 45 degrees, using the Revi gunsight for aiming. In December. the British began using Spitfires on low-level 'Rhubarb sweeps over France, but these used strafing only. British Preparation for Chemical Warfare With the fall of France, the British prepared to initiate chemical warfare if necessary, Churchill being ready to go to 'all lengths' to repel the expected German invasion. In July, 16 squadrons of aircraft (2 Wellington, 5 Blenheim, 4 Battle, and 5 Lysander squadrons), at a dozen airfields, had been secretly equipped with gas bombs and/or spray tanks for 79 mustard gas. Training for low altitude spraying used Battles with tanks filled with water, and special charts to allow for height, airspeed and wind direction. Experiments at Halton used Tiger Moth training biplanes to dispense an arsenic-based insecticide in liquid form from a tank in the front cockpit, and in powder form from canisters under the wings. Spraying attacks on the invasion beaches and landing craft could have been suicidal, given the German AA, but the invasion did not come. Britain continued CW training and the production of aircraft conversion kits. By December, the still-neutral USA was secretly supplying Britain with poison gas (mainly phosgene) to supplement the meagre British stocks. At the time Germany had twenty times as much, including tabun nerve gas. [Harris and Paxman, 1982:111] British Developments for Close Support British attempts at close support in France had been a failure. However, a useful concept had emerged, the use of a safety 'Bomb Line', ideally an easily identifiable feature (e.g. a road or river) which troops would approach at risk, and bey