ircraft ditched, for as long as fuel reserves allowed, to guide rescue craft. All crews were required to watch for any survivors using flares or mirrors. After a mission, the B-29s flew search missions back over the route taken. The rescues were made by 'Dumbo' PBY-5 amphibians or by surface ships or submarines, including some positioned for 'planeguard' duty. On 27 January, a B-29 raid on Japan was the first to be accompanied by two SB-29A 'Superdumbo' rescue escort conversions. Each carried additional radio equipment and droppable supplies, including a large A-3 ventral lifeboat, life rafts and survival kits. The crew included an extra radio operator to communicate with downed crewmen and rescue ships. Iwo Jima: Escort Fighter Operations; Sweeps After a conventional bombardment (the Lethridge plan to 'sanitize' it with chemical bombs and shells having been rejected), on 19 February 1945 US forces invaded Iwo Jima. The heavily defended island was half way between the B-29 bases in the Marianas and their targets in Japan. Its occupation enabled elimination of the Japanese radar early warning station, and the provision of both an emergency landing field for B-29s and a forward base for P-51 escort fighters. The first of 2,251 B-29s to make an emergency  1945 276 DAYLIGHT BOMBING landing there did so on 4 March. P-51s arrived on 6 March. The first escorted B-29 daylight mission against Japan came on 7 April, 95 P-51s from Iwo Jima accompanying the raid on Musashino. For such raids, escort assembly was achieved by squadron lead aircraft dropping parachute flares and smoke bombs to indicate the assembly point. But the Iwo Jima P-51s were to fly only ten escort missions, the B-29s continuing to operate mainly at night and in bad weather, bombing by radar. When by June, the Japanese fighter force could offer little opposition to large-scale daylight B-29 raids, the P-51 escorts were able to drop down low for strafing attacks. On 16 April, P-51s from Iwo Jima made the firs