. On average one bomber should achieve 40 tons of bombs dropped during its life. If dropped on towns, these would make 4,000 to 8,000 people homeless. If only half of the bombs were dropped on target, a production run of 10,000 bombers attacking 58 German towns could make almost one third of the German population homeless. British ministerial statements continued to claim that only military targets were being attacked. [Hastings, 1979:130-4] Meanwhile, some two million leaflets per week were now being dropped over Europe by RAF Bomber Command. aided by SOE's 'special duties' units. This output was later greatly exceeded by the USAAF effort. Leaflet dropping was still manual, the leaflets being released in bundles down the flare chute to scatter in the aircraft's slipstream. The method was slow, with large dispersion and hence poor delivery accuracy. The British MAP sought improvements via automatic dispensing, e.g. with experiments in 1942 with metal containers for leaflets, built into the wings of aircraft. British Night Bombing Photography During 1942, RAF heavy bombers were equipped with a ventral F24 camera for night raid photographs using a 4.5-inch photoflash bomb released from the aircraft's flare chute. Unlike post-raid coverage, raid photographs gave evidence of individual crews' performance, the marking, and the development of the raid including the spread of fires. At times they also helped to pin-point the locations of flak. searchlights, decoys, smokescreen generators etc., all lights on the ground showing as streaks across the film. The camera rearward tilt angle and timing sequence, and the photoflash fuze, were pre-set before take-off for the expected bombing altitude. Pressing the 'bomb tit' simultaneously released the bombs and the photoflash, and 161 activated the camera sequence. The aircraft then had to fly straight and level (for 30 seconds at 20,000ft, to the great dislike of the crews if the target was well defended) until the flash exploded.