n of different candles gave four optional burn times of up to 20 minutes. To stem increasing bomber losses, the RAF implemented further deception measures: broadcasting fake test signals prior to raids, and when Bomber Command was not operat- ing; mounting two-phase raids; flying low over the North Sea to delay being picked up by German radar; and having training crews fly part-way simulated raids over the North Sea. Deception became a major PFF task, to draw German night fighters away from a real raid. On 28 January, a spoof raid by Mosquitos dropped false 'fighter flares' as well as Window and spoof route markers. Later, spoof raids were mounted purely to activate the German night fighter force, tiring them when there were no real raids; on 9 November, Mosquitos dropping Window kept six Gruppen of night fighters airborne for two-and-a-half hours. For a large (700-plus aircraft) raid on Bochum on 4 November, the PFF exploited the German practice of aiming a flak barrage towards skymarkers; after dropping their TIs, the PFF crews dropped flares to one side, to draw flak away from the main force. No.5-Group 'Visual Dive Marking' With the PFF opposed to low-level marking because of the risk to the crews doing it, Bomber Command's 5 Group  1944 NIGHT BOMBING 250 began investigating it themselves; the goal was higher accuracy. Proximity markers were blind dropped in the target area, other aircraft then dropping flares over the markers, with the Master Bomber at low level using the light of the flares to identify and mark the actual target. Marking used 30lb incendiaries which did not need the altitude of TIs. Sq. Ldr. H.B. Martin introduced more accurate release of markers by dive-bombing. The resulting 'visual dive marking' was introduced on 8 February 1944, Grp.Capt. G.L.Cheshire as Master Bomber dropping 30lb incen- diaries from a Lancaster at 200ft right onto the target, the Gnome-Rhône engine factory at Limoges. Much of the factory was then destroyed by 12,000lb HC