s' or 'Master Bomber' to control a raid and so increase its effectiveness. After its use on the Dams raid, the technique was sanctioned for the PFF. Grp Capt. J.H. Searby, as Master Bomber, tried it in a raid on Turin on 7 August, and then used it for the first time in a major raid for the attack on Peenemünde. The Master Bomber arrived with the lead aircraft and then loitered over the target area throughout the attack, giving marking and bombing instructions by VHF R/T. The raid instructions particularly aided inexperienced replacement crews, despite some disruption by German jamming. By mid-1944, on major raids the PFF usually operated a Deputy as well as the Master Bomber. These took turns, one making a marking run while the other observed and instructed the 'backers up'. Further PFF aircraft headed each wave of bombers, to remark the target, again under the direction of the Master or Deputy. Also in 1944, a 'Long Stop' crew was introduced to take over the task of dropping yellow TIs to cancel bad markers or as a boundary line to limit the spread of bombing. Concerned at intelligence reports of German progress with secret weapons, on the night of 17 August 1943 the British despatched 596 heavy bombers on Operation 'Hydra', against the rocket/missile establishment at Peenemünde. The raid was the RAF's only full-strength precision night raid, attacking three separate targets within the Peenemünde complex. These were the experimental works, the A-4 missile production works, and the housing estate for the technical staff - making this the first RAF raid specifically intended to kill civilians. Innovations included: first use of the Spot Fire marker; first use of a Master Bomber on a large raid; and first shifting of marking - done by aiming at the same markers but using a calculated false setting on the bombsights - for the second and third targets. The raid was not wholly successful, the initial marking being two miles off due to poor H2S imaging; many foreign worke