bers of SD-2 bombs in key areas to hamper Soviet movements. But when a bomb did explode in deep snow, it was much less effective than normal, the snow muffling the blast. More fundamentally, the Germans found themselves struggling with starting and operating problems, including freezing glycol; and with narrow-track u/cs unsuited to snow-covered grass and earthstrips. Ski-landing gears seemed unsatisfactory, except on the light Fi156 Storch. When possible, trimotor Ju52/3ms were used for snow clearing, the slipstream from the three propellers blowing it away as the aircraft was taxied up and down. Generally, the Germans were ill prepared for maintenance work and the severe icing on aircraft left in the open: canvas covers froze stiff and became unmanageable; greasing of surfaces to de-ice or prevent icing was often not possible; fingers froze to bare metal; gas masks had to be worn to prevent facial frostbite; engines had to be run up at 30-minute intervals to prevent a freeze-up; rubber tyres  Ca 1941 116 DAYLIGHT BOMBING became brittle and deteriorated; tools needed to be heated before use. Efforts were made to step up the supply of aircraft equipped with de-icing systems (hot air or pulsating boot type). Warming stoves with ducts were improvised, and later the Zwerg petrol-fired hot-air engine heater was introduced to alleviate cold starting problems. By contrast, the Soviets were accustomed to the severe winter and were better prepared, with suitable clothing, equipment, airfields with facilities, and logistics. Their 'obsolete' aircraft were more manageable, using the 'Hucks' starter, air-cooled radial engines, and wide-track large-tyred u/cs. The Soviets also used insulated engine covers, each with a duct through which a 'hot air lorry' could provide a flow of heated air to warm the engine. In addition they rolled the airstrip snow to compress it, aiding take-offs and suppressing snow clouds. By December, the Soviets were flying four times as many sorties as t