angeable. It used lower frequency (2Mc/s) for longer range over the sea, and would aid bombing missions over the Pacific. Unlike Gee, it used only two stations, giving position on a line; switching to a second pair was needed to achieve a position fix. In Britain, production 'H2S' ground-imaging radar sets were delivered late in 1942. H2S used a paraboloidal scanner in a ventral perspex housing,  1942 138 NAVIGATION, BLIND BOMBING AND RADAR and a PPI display. US work on a similar system was - temporarily - abandoned as being unnecessary for daylight bombing. [Hartcup, 1970:144] The British 'Oboe' Blind-bombing System; 'Taub' The British TRE 'Oboe' was rated as the most precise blind- bombing aid of the war [R.V. Jones, 1978:353]. It used radar-ranging from two ground stations, the 'Cat' or flight path station, and 'Mouse' or bomb release station. A radar repeater on the aircraft provided a strong return signal to both stations. With audio radio signals warning of deviations, the pilot flew along a precise arc of a circle centred on the Cat station and passing over the target. The Mouse station monitored the aircraft's progress, and provided the release signal when the aircraft had reached the exact range from Mouse which ensured that it was at the drop point. The aircraft had to fly at a precise speed and altitude so that the bomb release point accurately allowed for the descent trajectory of the bomb. Flight trials began in April. Due to the Earth's curvature, the Oboe aircraft had to fly high to be able to receive the radar signals at any significant range, hence it was proposed to use it with the pressurized Wellington Mk. VI for bombing. But interest shifted to using Oboe primarily for marking targets, to enable larger forces of aircraft to bomb, so development continued with the smaller and faster Mosquito. The 1.5m Oboe Mk.I was first used operationally for bombing on 20 December, and for target marking on 31 December. Navigation to the Cat curve used Gee or a