gyro-gunsight - effective during evasive movements as well in level flight - was introduced on RAF and US bombers. The new British Rose Brothers' hydraulic turret featured twin 0.5-inch guns, heating, easier exit, a gyro-gunsight, and room for a second crewman to help with settings if required. To counter the new Me262 jet fighters, some B-24 bombers of the US 392nd BG were fitted with a fixed rearward-firing Army M6A1 'Bazooka' each side of the rear fuselage, to be fired by the tail gunner. Reportedly some were used operationally, with no great effect. Other improvisations included a conspicuously large dummy gun mounted in the tail of a US B-29. Among other developments, US wing de-icing trials included some with the XB-25E (hot air system) and XB-25F (electrical heating). The experimental Pe-2RD version of the Soviet Pe-2 bomber featured a tail-mounted auxiliary RD-1 rocket engine for take-off or to boost speed and altitude when needed. The British introduced a tail-mounted Infra Red identification system, enabling an RAF bomber to identify itself as friendly to RAF night fighters. New German Attempts at a Strategic Bomber By 1944, continuing difficulties with the He177 led to further hurried projects and proposals for a new German strategic heavy bomber. One was for a long-range version of the four-engined Me264, achieving take-off at overload condi- tion using assisted take-off rockets under the wings and a jettisonable extra wheel for each main u/c. Another, the four-engined Junkers Ju488, was largely improvised from existing Junkers aircraft parts to simplify production. Two others were for bomber conversions of large Junkers transports, the four-engined Ju290B and the ultra-long range six-engined Ju390A. In both these cases, the fuselage structure was unable to take the large cut-outs needed to incorporate a bomb bay, so the weapon load was to have been carried on external racks under the fuselage and wings. Finally, there was a new project for a six-engined