the Front itself, making few deep strikes in the German rear. This allowed the Germans to withdraw in reasonable order, and was judged a tactical error by the Soviets. [Hardesty, 1982:88] In April 1942, a Soviet long-range bomber force was re-established within a new ADD (Long Range Aviation), under Maj. Gen. A. Golovanov. But the Soviets had not been impressed by the results of the German strategic bombing against Britain, or against Soviet cities, and the new force was given little priority despite its capability for attacking the enemy's rear areas and communications. The ADD's initial strength included Pe-2 and Il-4 bombers plus civil transport aircraft. With Soviet defenders holding out at Sevastopol, on 2  1942 154 DAYLIGHT BOMBING June the Ju87s and Ju88s of Flieger Korps VIII began one of the most intensive bombing assaults of the war. Each day, 600 sorties were made against Soviet positions including the Maxim Gorky fortress, aircraft from nearby airfields making up to 18 sorties each. At times, fully fuelled Ju88s made up to four sorties before the crew were able to leave the aircraft for a break. The total number of bombs dropped reached 125,000, many being 1,000kg bombs, the largest available. Rocket AP bombs were made available in case the Soviet fleet attempted to relieve the fortress. Despite the intensity of the bombing, when Sevastopol fell on 4 July the fortifications themselves showed little damage. The German assault on Stalingrad included heavy bombing, a 400-plus aircraft raid on 23 August leaving much of the city in flames. Later, with the German 6th Army cut off, in November the Luftwaffe began a large, desperate and ultimately futile supply airlift into the pocket. He111 the bomber units, including some transferred from Mediterranean, plus training units, were ordered to supplement the transport fleet. The losses of aircraft and trained crews to the steadily tightening Soviet defences around the pocket were severe. Göring later said 'There d