n the dropping of flares as an alternative means of obtaining a visual fix. In Britain this interest increased after a report that the Germans were using flares in Spain; limited tests with towed and parachute- dropped flares were made but no operational technique was established. Also in Britain, in 1937 the then Grp Capt.A.T.Harris advocated development of a 'long-burning incendiary' which could be dropped by lead aircraft onto a target after they had found it, to mark it for succeeding aircraft. But no such development was undertaken. Only in Germany was any serious work done on aids to achieve accurate night navigation by bombers, with the development of blind bombing radio systems. German Strategic Dive-bombing Late pre-war, the German Air Staff saw precision dive-bombing as a means of striking against rear and strategic targets, as well as for close support. [Smith, 1981:16] Dive-bombing was a force multiplier: more accurate bombing required fewer bombs, allowing mostly medium rather than heavy bombers, and these could be built in far greater numbers. So, whereas it was largely ignored by other land-based air forces, dive-bombing became a requirement in German bomber specifications, e.g. for the Dornier Do217 and Junkers Ju88 medium bombers and - extraordinarily - for the Heinkel He177 four-engined heavy bomber. Critics would argue later that the policy was unrealistic. Use of small dive-bombers in front-line operations was one thing; sending larger ones deep into well-defended air space was quite another. A diving attack would take the bomber away from both the mutual defence of the formation, and the protection of the accompanying escort fighters. Dive-bombing at night could remove that 29 vulnerability, but introduced new risks as well as the usual difficulties in locating the target in darkness. The US, German and British Positions on Strategic Bombing Three air forces were to engage in strategic bombing on any scale during the War, those of Germany, Brita