n. Mass production of gas masks for civilian populations as well as troops became an urgent priority, notably in Britain where 50 million 'respirators' had been made by the outbreak of war. Civil defence units were trained in anti-gas measures; and some armies acquired specialist chemical units, e.g. the German Nebeltruppe. That chemical warfare didn't happen, largely for fear of retaliation in kind, was one of the unexpected features of the Second World War. Biological Warfare Germ or Biological Warfare (BW) aimed to inflict damage or death on the enemy's personnel, crops or livestock by the spread of infection or disease using bacteria, viruses and spores as agents, often carried by living creatures to aid spreading. But despite an equally long history, in the late 1930s BW development was neither as advanced nor as widespread as that for CW. Compared with using chemicals, the spread of living organisms was much less predictable or controllable; plagues would not respect battle front lines or national frontiers. So, while some countries were actively working on BW defence, as at Britain's Porton Down Establishment, work on BW weapons seems to have been confined initially to the USSR. But, after reports of severe casualties to Japanese forces due to cholera and anthrax weapons used by Soviet saboteurs in China in 1935, the Japanese themselves set up a major BW plant, at Pingfan 51 near Harbin, under Gen. Shiro Ishii. Developments there included work on aircraft delivery systems; more so than chemical weapons, biological weapons were primarily for use at long range, far beyond the front line. The Beginning of Nuclear Weapons Development The prospect of converting matter into energy to give an atomic bomb was foreseen in H.G.Wells' novel The World Set Free in 1913. Harold Nicholson's 1932 novel Public Faces warned: ' ... the experts had begun to whisper the words "atomic bomb", and that ... a single bomb could by the discharge of its electronic energy destroy New Yor