ee hand. On that same day, the Japanese struck also at Malaya, Guam, Wake. Hong Kong and, crucially, US air bases in the Philippines. The Japanese had practised overwater flights of up to 12 hours duration with the A6M-2 Zero-sen fighter, and this enabled them to raid the Philippines from land bases in Formosa, so freeing aircraft carriers for other operations. These raids were delayed by bad weather, during which a traumatized Gen.D.MacArthur refused to sanction either a raid by B-17s in the Philippines on the Japanese bases on Formosa, or to disperse the aircraft to greater safety [Costello, 1985:152]. Some 26 G3M and 81 G4M bombers. escorted by 89 A6M fighters, struck at the US bases. destroying 14 out of 35 B-17s, 30 out of 40 P-35 and P-40 fighters, and the sole operational EW radar in the Philippines, an SCR270 at Iba. The US managed to mount its first bombing raid on 10 December, six B-17C bombers attacking the Japanese invasion fleet off Luzon. 121 To support the invasion of Malaya, Japanese aircraft systematically bombed and strafed the airfields in the north, the poorly equipped British quickly withdrawing south, at times leaving stores and runways intact. By the 9th, when six Blenheim bombers made the first of the limited British counterstrikes, the Japanese had flown in 150 combat aircraft to bases in Siam. Many soon moved forward to the captured airfields in Malaya and began 'using British fuel and British bombs to attack British troops'. Night Bombing German Bomber 'Streaming' against Britain; Deception for 'Barbarossa' By early 1941 the Germans were anticipating enhanced British night defences, and replaced the long Krokodil bomber streams (attacking over 10 hours or so) by a single tight stream, bombing for less than one hour. This took all bombers through a given area in as short a time as possible to saturate the defences. After turning, the stream might break up, some crews descending for a fast exit at well below British night fighter patrol heig