by 20 minutes and loiter over the target area to provide homing signals to guide main force aircraft to it. These aircraft were fully armed B-29s, carrying extra fuel plus a dedicated radio and radio operator, but no bomb load. The attack itself was made by marking with M47 incendiaries and using a fan approach to improve coverage. The raid was hugely destructive, later crews aiming not at the fires but at black areas among the fires. Some 15 square miles of Tokyo, almost four times the area to be devastated by the A-bomb at Hiroshima, were destroyed in a great firestorm caused by the clustered, napalm-filled M69 incendiaries. The US bombers were tossed and raised by the violent thermal updraughts, crews could feel the intense heat, and some vomited at the stench of burning flesh. The death toll was 78,660 in the official Japanese estimate, probably nearer 130,000 in reality. Fourteen B-29s were lost to AA. The raid was watched by Gen. T. Power in a loitering observation B-29, carrying full armament but no bombs. Further fire-bombing raids followed, against Nagoya on 11 and 18 March, Osaka (by radar) on 13 March, and Kobe on 16 March; the 21st AF then ran out of bombs, but only temporarily. Japanese civilian morale declined, and mass evacuations began, when on 27 July the Americans started dropping leaflets given prior announcements of their next targets. Ground Attack Against most predictions of the mid-1930s, ground attack and especially close support operations became one of the war's most important uses of air power. It took various forms, from the Soviet light night harassment bombers, to the RAF's wide-roaming rocket-firing Beaufighters and Mosquitos, and even the use of heavy bombers against troop concentrations. At the outbreak of the European war, only the Germans had acquired an effective close support capability, used spectacularly in the German army's early Blitzkrieg offensives. After Barbarossa, the Soviets acquired the aircraft and eventually the comm