st over the Isle of Sheppey; and as route markers, 15 September over the North Sea. It became Luftwaffe practice to use red, green or yellow flares for route marking; and white flares for ground illumination, dropped singly or in packs of four. The British public called these brilliant white and coloured flares 'chandelier flares'. With the British success in jamming the Knickebein system, by October the Luftwaffe's II/KG55 was at times resorting to using flares for target illumination during night attacks on Britain. Diversion of Bombers: Minelaying; the Clandestine War On the night of 20 November 1939, German He115 floatplanes had begun the first ever air minelaying campaign, dropping LM-A and LM-B magnetic mines off the British coast. On 2 April 1940, the minelaying effort was increased by the first use of bombers in this role, Hellls being diverted for the task. On 13 April, RAF Hampdens were used to drop mines ('vegetables') in the first British use of bombers for minelaying ('gardening'). While leaflet raids and minelaying continued, small scale diversion of bombers to the clandestine war was under way. In August 1940, German He111 bombers dropped supplies and empty parachutes into Britain to instil fear of an active Fifth Column; then an unmarked black He111 from Chartres parachuted the first two German agents into Britain, near Salisbury. This was the start of considerable 95 secret traffic, carried out by all of the combatants, much of it using bombers at night. As resistance groups began to form in occupied territory, the dropping - and picking up - of agents was accompanied by much larger drops of weapons and other supplies. On the Allied side, the major missions were flown by RAF and US bombers on behalf of the SOE and OSS respectively. Routing and Attack Techniques; Time-and-bearing; the Bassingbourn Error For the early British night raids, most sorties were individual ones; the tight bomber stream awaited the coming of 'Gee'. The pre-flight briefing ga