ng 1944, mostly medium bombers (II-4, US A-20 and B-25) operating mainly in a tactical support role, bombing rail targets, supply dumps etc. at up to 300km beyond the front. Most raids were made in daylight with fighter escort. Successes included the destruction of hundreds of German aircraft while being transported by rail 247 because of Germany's increasing shortage of aviation fuel. For the Operation 'Bagration' offensive in June, ADD missions included many bombing sweeps against German rear areas including Luftwaffe airfields. VVS fighters were used to clear the area of German fighters beforehand; to provide diversions; and to provide escort for the bombers, which often flew in a wide arc to approach the target from an unexpected direction. Other operations included leaflet raids over Finland and Eastern Europe, and supply drops to parti- san groups, but little strategic bombing. Reportedly several US B-17s and B-24s were provided to the USSR c.1944, but it is not clear if or how they were used. In December, the ADD was re-organized as the 18th Air Army. Night Bombing German Night Bombing Against the USSR In January 1944, the Germans restarted bombing Soviet rail targets in an effort to slow the Red Army's westward offensive. Soviet day fighter defences were now too strong, for daylight operations, while their night fighters were still without radar direction. Accordingly, the German raids were made at night using flare illumination by pathfinders. The Soviets limited the damage to the trains themselves, by moving them out of stations and marshalling yards when approaching bombers were reported. On the night of 2 June, after an He177 had followed a USAAF shuttle bombing mission to Soviet airfields at Poltava and Piratyin, 200 He111 and Ju88 bombers attacked these airfields; KG4 bombers dropped flares for illumination. US officers were incensed at the inadequate Soviet response, four Yak-9s being scrambled out of some 40 night fighters stationed nearby, as 43 B-1