napalm M47s were to be used as markers. German Bomb-towing Trials In 1944, the Germans devised a method of enabling the Me262 twin-jet fighter to carry a large bomb by towing it. The 500 or 1,000kg standard bomb was fitted with wooden wings and a wheeled dolly to be jettisoned after take-off. The bomb/wing assembly was coupled to the aircraft's tail by a Deichselschlepp tow bar. In operation, the Me262 was to enter a shallow dive towards the target, the pilot releasing the bomb and then the wings and tow bar. Flight tests showed stability and control difficulties, especially with the larger bomb, so severe that on one occasion the pilot had to bale out. The concept was abandoned as too dangerous for the Me262, but was also evaluated for the Arado Ar234C using a 1,500kg bomb. US Guided 'Vertical Bombs': 'Azon' The US VB (Vertical Bomb) series of radio-guided free-fall bombs were adapted conventional bombs. The only one to  1944 216 WEAPON DEVELOPMENTS see major use during the war was the VB-1. This was a 1,000lb M44 bomb with a new tail assembly having control surfaces and actuators, a vertical gyro for roll stabilization, a radio receiver, and a tracking flare. Named 'Azon' (for AZimuth ONly), it was controllable in direction (left or right), but not in range (undershoot or overshoot), the latter being much more difficult to judge anyway. This made it advantageous for long, narrow targets like bridges, the attack being made in line with the target. It gave much greater accuracy than an unguided bomb, but training proved difficult. First used by 8th AF B-24s on 31 May 1944. the Azon was soon rejected for the European Theatre of Operations (ETO) because of frequent cloud plus bomber vulnerability to flak; for controllability the Azon needed to be released at intermediate height. However, the VB-1 was later successfully used by the 7th and 14th AFs, against bridges and viaducts in south-east Asia. The VB-2 was a 2,000lb version. US and German Glide-bombs The US Aeronca