tor in the survival of the Allied bridgehead in Normandy. By June, the US 15th AF was striking at the Rumanian and Hungarian rail systems, to aid the Soviets. But an Allied 'Transportation Plan' for Germany itself was rejected. The heavy bombers returned mainly to bombing cities (RAF) and aircraft and oil plants (USAAF), even though dispersal of production was now making the bombing of German cities and known factories less effective, and transport had become vital for bringing components to the assembly points. German production continued to increase until, late in the war, the oil shortage and air attacks brought such transport disruption that little of the Ruhr's daily output of 30,000 tons of goods could be moved out. 243 The Allied 'Oil Offensive' On 5 April, the US 15th AF restarted bombing the Ploesti refineries with escorted raids from Foggia; these included a low-level one by P-38s, each carrying a 1,000lb bomb. Then on 12 May, the 8th AF implemented one of the crucial policies of the war, Spaatz's plan for the systematic destruction of German oil installations, notably the 12 main synthetic fuel plants. Thanks to opposition from Harris, the RAF joined in belatedly but continued the oil attacks even when the appearance of the Me163 rocket fighter and Me262 jet fighter in July caused the 8th AF to revert temporarily to attacking aircraft and engine factories. US bomber losses to flak were now increasing as the Germans, finding radar-controlled AA fire against night raids severely compromised by British jamming, instead moved AA units to the factories and oil plants being attacked by US day bombers. But German aviation fuel output dropped progressively from 175,000 tons in April, to just 10,000 tons in September; the Germans virtually ceased pilot training in powered aircraft. But the Allied offensive then eased, due to bad weather (making precision attacks difficult) and over-optimistic interpretation of raid damage photos. Plant repairs enabled ed an increa