orces. Language, liaison and training difficulties prevented the setting up of ground-to-air communications by the US 14th AF and the Chinese until late in the war. Instead, the aircraft operated without ground direction, attacking targets in the Japanese rear, well clear of Chinese troops. [USSBS, 1945-49: No.67] Throughout South-east Asia, Allied air operations against the Japanese Army's supply system included strafing attacks to destroy the pack/cart animals used, horses especially, but also bullocks and elephants. Aircrews found the task distasteful, but the US 14th AF alone claimed 19,941 horses killed by the end of the war. [USSBS, 1945-49: No.67] Daylight Bombing Techniques Revised 8th Air Force Formations In Britain, 8th AF bombers introduced LeMay's revised three-dimensional box formation in a raid on St Nazaire on 3 January 1943. That month, the 8th AF received its first US single-engined escort fighters, P-47s, but these offered little range improvement over the Spitfire. Self-defending Task Forces remained the key to survival on deep penetration 189 missions. The multiple staggered arrowhead formation was now extended to cover a Combat Wing of three Groups, giving the largest combat formation (54 aircraft) used during the war. Each Group consisted of three squadrons in lead, high and low position, each squadron having two elements of three aircraft in the lead and high position. In January, the 'Javelin' formation was adopted, the Groups being echeloned upwards to the rear and towards the sun. In February, the 'Wedge' put the Groups in lead, high and low position. In April the groups were moved closer, with the elements and squadrons echeloned the opposite way to each other. This revised formation was used for the rest of the year. For the bomb run, the Combat Wing maintained formation up to the IP (Initial Point - a chosen visual/radar landmark). It then split, the three Groups proceeding independently, with course changes to avoid heavy flak, then a 7