y the Axis Powers, the Manhattan Project received top priority, with enormous funding and a Top-Secret rating. Centred on Los Alamos, it was to result in two types of A-bomb, using uranium 235 and plutonium respectively. On 2 December, Dr Enrico Fermi achieved start-up with the world's first critical atomic pile, at the University of Columbia in Chicago. This paved the way for large scale production of plutonium. The first known statement on a possible thermonuclear or hydrogen bomb was made in May 1941 by Japanese physicist T.Hagiwara. In the USA in July 1942, Dr Edward Teller presented the first calculations showing how the million degree temperatures attained by an A-bomb could generate a fusion reaction. The bomb could utilize deuterium ('heavy hydrogen') in heavy water surrounding an A-bomb, the deuterium (2H) forming tritium (3H) then fusing to form helium, with accompanying release of enormous quantities of energy, giving a 'Super' A-bomb (or 'H' bomb) of almost unlimited power. Teller went on to lead the US H-bomb development which came to fruition after the war. German, Japanese and Soviet Nuclear Weapon Developments The Axis Powers were indeed working towards an atomic bomb, but at low priority. In Germany, nuclear physicists were now working under Prof. W. Heisenberg, at Hechingen. In March, Goebbels noted that: 'Research in the realm of atomic destruction has now proceeded to the point where its results may possibly be used in the present war.' The bomb bay of an He177 was enlarged to support A-bomb ballistic tests [Smith and Kay, 1972:287], but A-bomb development did not meet Hitler's requirements for rapid results, and in June, Speer approved preliminary nuclear work only. The prototype atomic piles at Kummersdorf and Haigersloch were still subcritical at the end of the war. The expectation that the Germans were more likely than the Japanese to achieve an A-bomb influenced the US adoption of a 'Germany first' war policy. But eleven days after Roosevelt