ke bombs in front of known AA and coastal defence gun positions, to provide more persistent local screening; the smoke bombs contained a phosphorus compound which generated smoke on exposure to air. Fighter cover was impressive (56 squadrons), but there was no prior naval bombardment or heavy bombing of the coastal and AA defences, only small scale - and quite inadequate - air strikes, some by cannon Hurricanes which flew low-level attacks over the beaches, making maximum use of the screening. Also, no attempt was made to try out the Army/Air Support organization and techniques built up over two years. No ALOs operated with 2 Group to help co-ordinate the smoke-laying and air attacks; no ASSUs with radio links were landed with the troops to call up air strikes; and although Army Cooperation Mustangs flew low-level reconnaissance missions over the beaches, they too had no radio links to the troops. [Carrington, 1987:104] Instead, direction of air support operations relied on an RAF observer/controller on the HQ destroyer HMS Calpe, whose view at critical times was largely obstructed by the air-laid smokescreens. Allied Attempts with Dive-bombers; the Soviet Ver- tushka Carousel Having consistently opposed the acquisition of dive- bombers, despite appeals by the British Army, in June 1942 the RAF began receiving the much delayed Vultee Vengeance dive-bombers ordered for it, but which it did not want. Now the Vengeances were judged obsolescent and too vulnerable for use in Europe. They were passed on to the Indian Air Force (to supplement its Hurricanes), the RAF in India, and (in 1943) the RAAF. All used them with distinction. The RAF's Vengeances were first used to support the Arakan offensive in Burma in November 1942. Attacks against Japanese-held villages and troop positions were normally made by a six-aircraft group, peeling off from echelon formation at 10,000ft. Reports of the Vengeances' successes, albeit against minimal air opposition, were received with some