e provided the bulk of the air support for the landings there (Marshall Islands, New Guinea, Marianas, Palau and Caroline Islands, and the Philippines - Leyte, Mindoro). Land-based bombers aided in the prior bombardment, which included bombing and shelling of the beach defences and minefields, the craters providing cover for the troops coming ashore. AF and USMC fighters, fighter- and dive-bombers were flown in as soon as airfields had been captured and repaired; e.g. on 22 June, 7th AF P-47s were catapulted from CVE escort carriers to land on Saipan, flying their first close support operations that day. In Italy, the luckless citizens of Civitavecchia found themselves subjected to heavy Allied decoy bombing prior to the Anzio landings, the bombing being purely to give the impression that the landings would be here, north of Rome. At Anzio itself in February, DAF and US tactical aircraft did much to disrupt the German counter-offensive to the beachhead, but failed to silence the 'Anzio Annie' railway gun. Further south, Allied tactical airpower failed to dislodge German troops from steel and concrete bunkers high in the hills near Cassino. In June, the Allies set up the Balkan Air Force to provide tactical airpower to support partisans in Albania and Greece, and especially in Yugoslavia; some fighter-bombers were used for supply drops. In November, fighter-bombers were used in the 'Operation Bingo' assault on transformer stations for the  1944 228 GROUND-ATTACK OPERATIONS electrified Brenner Pass rail line. In December, BAF fighter-bombers were used to aid Greek forces against rebel units in a civil war. Allied Operations in South-east Asia RAF ground attack strikes in Burma used Vengeances, Beaufighters, Mustangs, and especially Hurricanes, with bombs, rockets and cannon. Troops, including each Chindit unit had an RAF officer to direct air attacks. The Vengeances were employed, e.g. in pin-point dive-bombing attacks against Japanese earth bunkers, using a mix of de