ropping 58,000 tons of bombs in 43 major attacks on heavily defended cities, mostly in the Ruhr. The battle cost Bomber Command 872 aircraft missing. But despite the devastation caused in industrial as well as residential areas, it seems there was only about one-and-a-half months loss of production. The giant Krupps steel works at Essen had been a frequent target for the RAF, but to little effect until an Oboe-marked raid on the night of 25 July 1943, when 627 aircraft dropped 2,032 tons of bombs on it. On seeing the damage, Dr Gustav Krupp collapsed, and never recovered; but the plant itself did. With the onset of short summer nights, the RAF were unable to make deep penetration raids and return while still in darkness. Accordingly, in the first shuttle bombing mission, on the night of 20 June, Lancasters raiding the Zeppelin plant at Friedrichshafen flew on to land in North Africa, with a return raid on Spezia three nights later. But maintenance work on the bombers at distant temporary bases proved difficult without a major logistics/support effort. In the Zeppelin raid, the target area was quickly obscured by smokescreens, but as planned, later crews substituted time and bearing bombing runs from landmarks on the shore of Lake Constance. New German Night Raid Techniques against Britain On 16 April 1943, 28 Fw190s of SKG10 inaugurated German high-altitude night fighter-bomber raids against London, with navigation aided by D/F stations in France. But the attacks were too small and inaccurate to achieve much success. With its 500kg bomb and wing tanks gone, an Fw190 could outrun a Mosquito night fighter; but with no radar or RWR, it was vulnerable to surprise attacks when cruising. On the night of 4 May, the Germans used a new tactic for a raid on Norwich, the Luftwaffe's bombers simply joining the returning RAF bomber stream. This obviated any defence action until the bombs began falling. A new Pathfinder unit, I/KG66, flying Do217 and Ju88 bombers then Ju188s, mad