ed by the Tupolev design bureau incarcerated in TsKB-29 Special Prison, was to operate as a dive-bomber as well as a conventional medium bomber. Like the Pe-2, it had underwing dive-brakes and a prone ventral gunner; armament included two fixed forward-firing cannon in the wing roots. In June, the US Army began receiving its first dive-bomber, the Douglas A-24 version of the Navy's SBD. But it was to be little used, its performance and armament being judged inadequate. The conclusion that a single seater might have better speed and manoeuvrability for close support was to lead to the Brewster XA-32. Noting continuing German success with dive-bombing, in October the Japanese began development of their first purpose- designed twin-engined dive-bomber, the Kawasaki Ki-66. German Intruder Operations over Britain Since July 1940, German night fighters had performed intruder sorties over Britain, catching RAF bombers returning from a raid and preparing to land. By 1941, these night operations included attacks on the bases themselves,  1941 112 Cano GROUND-ATTACK DEVELOPMENTS all-black Do17Zs and Ju88Cs of NJG2 strafing and bombing the airfields, attacking buildings and aircraft. The bombs used were incendiaries and 50kg HE. Once an intruder had observed a British aircraft firing the 'colours of the day' on an approach, this was radioed to other intruders, enabling them to use the recognition signal both to silence any AA and to get an airfield's lights put on for a dummy approach, ending with an attack. But intruder operations were halted in October for over two years. Hitler wanted the RAF's Terror Flieger bombers destroyed over Germany where the people could see the wreckage. Air Operations in the Mediterranean; British Identifica- tion Problems With Italian forces failing, the Germans had moved the He111, Ju87 and Ju88 bombers of Fliegerkorps X to Sicily, attacking British convoys and Malta. In February 1941, part was relocated in North Africa in support of Rommel's ne