activated the camera sequence. The aircraft then had to fly straight and level (for 30 seconds at 20,000ft, to the great dislike of the crews if the target was well defended) until the flash exploded. The chosen 'flash frame' remained open for 4 seconds before and after the expected time of the flash. The flash bomb itself had higher drag than the bombs, to fall with a greater trail angle, exploding in mid-air to the rear of the camera's field of view. But the 200 million candlepower flash illuminated the impact area, and the bombs still in mid-air. The next frame often picked up the flashes of the bombs exploding. The camera and photoflash were not carried if the target was known to be overcast. The US 8th AF also soon began equipping its bombers with raid cameras. For daylight raids no flash was necessary, the camera being set to take an automatic sequence of five or six frames at intervals over the target. 'Shaker' Illumination; the Renault Raid; Flame-damped Exhausts In February 1942, Bomber Command introduced the 'Shaker' illuminating technique, in which five successive small groups of bombers dropped flares on the upwind side of the target, progressively homing in on it, for following aircraft to mark with incendiaries for the main force to bomb. Intended to be used with Gee, it was tried first without it in a raid on the Renault factory at Billancourt near Paris, on 3 March 1942, using the Seine for navigation. This was the RAF's first attempt at a large precision raid on a target in occupied territory. The 223 aircraft bombed at 121 per hour, the RAF's highest rate yet, dropping 470 tons of bombs which caused extensive factory damage and the deaths of 231 French civilians in nearby houses. The first use of Shaker with Gee came in a raid on Essen on 8 March, 80 of the 350 bombers being equipped with Gee. During 1942, the RAF's BSDU and FIU flew trials to evaluate bomber defence measures, including evasion tac- tics. The Lancaster's supposedly flame-damped exh