. 'Dove', the Navy Bomb Mark 64 project for an IR-homing M65 1,000lb GP bomb was also under way in 1945. None of these later guided bombs reached service by the end of the war. Air Force GB-series glide-bombs still under development included the GB-5 with an optical- contrast homing seeker, and the GB-7 with a radar-homing seeker. The Two US Atom Bombs: Uranium and Plutonium At Los Alamos, the two types of A-bomb emerged in 1945 with two different designs and shapes, but each equivalent in explosive power to 20,000 tons of TNT. Both types were to detonate in mid-air for maximum ground damage, by completion of three separate circuits triggered respectively by a timer, a barometric device, and quadruple radar altimeters, all carried on the bomb. A transmitter with aerials on the bomb's tail provided telemetry. The 'Little Boy' uranium bomb was a 9,000lb device, 120 inches long by 28 inches diameter. It used a 'gun' technique, a 5lb cylindrical slug of 235U being fired by an explosive charge along a 52-inch barrel, to break a neutron-absorbing safety shield and insert into a 17lb cylindrical ring of 235U to make up the required critical mass. A polonium-84 device  1945 262 263 NAVIGATION AND BLIND BOMBING emitted the neutrons to start the chain reaction. There being only sufficient 235U for one bomb, 'Little Boy' would be the first major weapon to be used operationally without a prior test. For the plutonium bomb, the fissionable material was more plentiful, allowing a prior test explosion. This was judged essential because its detonation system was more complex, plutonium reacting more quickly than uranium. To prevent premature disintegration ('fizzle') before reaching the most reactive state, Prof. Neils Bohr and Dr S.H. Neddermayer had devised an 'implosion' technique. A spherical-shaped subcritical mass of plutonium was sur- rounded by 64 explosive charges which were to be fired evenly and simultaneously, the resulting millions of atmospheres pressure causing the p