mostly learned to stand up well to the bombing of their cities. The 'terror raids' were apt to bring defiance, demands for retaliation, and motivation for war production. But morale wavered locally under the heaviest raids, and in Germany and Japan, right at the end. The RAF and USAAF inflicted the heaviest bombing, but  SUMMING UP 286 SUMMING UP tended to overestimate its effectiveness. The 'diminishing returns' factor (bombs being wasted on the rubble from previous raids) often ruled out repeat attacks that might have been more decisive. As it was, many who fled from the bombing returned to live and work among the ruins. The British bombing destroyed mainly central urban areas, whereas most industry was on the periphery. Factories shown as ruined in PR photos were assumed to be a total loss, but the tools mostly survived and often the rubble was quickly cleared and assembly lines restarted in the open. Some production went underground, some into private homes. Thus, despite the devastation, arms production increased, especially in Germany, only declining when communications became chaotic in the last months. The first strategic bombing campaign of the war was also the smallest and least effective. The Luftwaffe dropped a total of 74,172 tons of HE and incendiaries on Britain, including the V-weapon warheads, killing 64,000 civilians. But despite the destruction caused, mostly in the night blitz of 1940-41, the results were indecisive. Damage (and dispersal of production) did cause a small drop in British aircraft production in the winter of 1940-41. But jamming of the German blind bombing aids, and their inaccuracy, made most precision attacks on key targets ineffective, while the size and bomb load of Germany's medium-bomber force was inadequate for saturation bombing. Although the Germans had no prior experience to follow, critics were to argue that the bombing policy was misguided; Britain's Achilles' heel was its reliance on maritime supply, and its defeat mig