tal factory plant and equipment much further east, where it was now out of reach of the bombers. As the first morning of the German invasion progressed, Soviet bomber units began to react in a manner variously characterized as 'spontaneous', 'uncoordinated', 'purpose- less' and 'reckless'. [Hardesty, 1982:12] Waves of SB-2 and DB-3F bombers, often without fighter escort, were committed in raids mostly against the Luftwaffe bases in Poland. Flying in groups in clear skies, unprotected, and without taking evasive action, the bombers were easy targets for the Bf109s, and the loss rate was high. On the second day, the bombers were again committed heavily, again often without escort, but now for short-range attacks against German troop positions. Ordered to reduce bombing altitude to 1,000m to improve accuracy, and again flying straight and level as per their pre-war tr r training exercises, they were shot down in large numbers by German flak. On 26 June, Capt.N.F.Gastello of the 207th Long Range Bomber Regiment dived his burning Il-4 bomber onto a German motorized column, in the first of 70 recorded instances of suicide ground attacks by Soviet pilots. Later. VVS bomber units adopted a 'wedge' formation of up to 12 aircraft echeloned in altitude, in a tight formation for mutual defence. But even with escorts, losses in daylight remained high. Also, it seems only lead crews had maps and mission details, so German fighter pilots learned to attack the lead bomber; with this destroyed, other crews were apt to turn back. In September 1941, two RAF Hurricane squadrons sent to Murmansk began flying escort missions for Pe-2 bombers. Bombing in Finland's 'Continuation War' After the German invasion of the USSR, the Soviets again attacked Finland, in a 'Continuation War' that was initially much less one-sided than the Winter War. The VVS bombed 15 Finnish towns on 25 June, but heavy engagements against 119 the Germans prevented a sustained offensive. This enabled the Finns to rel