ies against the Free French-held fort of Bir Hakim. But through the second half of 1942, the British built up their forces in North Africa. including the RAF's Western Desert Air Force. US aircraft began to arrive also, including a few B-17 and B-24 bombers, the first heavy bombers in the theatre; by November, the US Middle East Air Force was operating alongside the RAF. With the Battle of Alamein beginning on 24 October, the British began advancing from the east, with well-coordinated use of RAF and SAAF tactical air power. Six squadrons of Wellingtons bombed German artillery as Hurricane fighter-bombers attacked troops and armour. In November, the Operation 'Torch' US/British 149 landings in Morocco and Algeria were supported initially by carrier-based air power, land-based aircraft being flown in from Gibraltar as airfields were secured. But air/ground co-operation here among the new units was 'deplorable'. [D'Este, 1988:163] Prior to Torch, the British mounted a series of raids on Genoa, Milan and Turin, the aim being to keep Italy's fighters and AA units at home. But stepped-up Axis raids on Allied-held ports and airfields included raids by Piaggio P.108B heavy bombers and Reggiane Re2001 fighter-bombers from Sardinia. With Torch came the US 12th AF under Brig. Gen. J.H. Doolittle; its heavy bombers became the major component of Doolittle's North-west African Strategic Air Force. Fighter-bombers and Light Bombers in the Desert In North Africa, road transport was among those targets rated as unpromising for conventional bombing; the vehicles of a convoy could often disperse to either side and spread out, needing individual attack, The RAF used Beaufighters for road strafing, e.g. a flight of four splitting into two sections to head left and right along a road at low level, the section leader firing at any vehicles encountered, the No.2 following behind attacking anything missed. For small targets generally, in 1942 the RAF also began using single-seat fighter-bo