nough for sweeps and strikes against the Luftwaffe's 285 bases to neutralize the Me262. In night bombing, the RAF's difficulties in finding and marking the target were progressively overcome, the difference in accuracy com- pared with day bombing virtually disappearing; bombing accuracy became a matter of clear weather versus overcast, rather than day versus night. But the invulnerability of night bombers had disappeared much earlier. In the escalating electronic war of radar and countermeasures, the night fighters had not been prevented for long from finding the RAF's bombers, which had limited defence and inadequate night-fighter intruder protection. Strategic Bombing: Cost, Morale and Production An operational bomber fleet needed a large manufacturing, supply, training and support infrastructure. It was expensive in manpower, materials and money, not least because the operational losses were frequently also high, with young crews having to face regularly a frightening ordeal, and with a life expectancy measured in months, if not weeks; RAF Bomber Command alone lost 47,293 aircrew killed on operational missions. But despite the expenditure, effort and lives, the war's strategic bombing never became quite the winning weapon its advocates had promised. In line with earlier fears and expectations, much of it was directed against population centres. This reflected both the difficulties in hitting small, key targets; and assumptions that casualties and 'de-housing' would undermine the enemy's morale and disrupt his war production. True, there were early adverse reactions to bombing among people unprepared for it: millions in Calcutta and Rangoon fled, and Mussolini quickly complained that his citizens had 'given proof of moral weakness'. But civilians, including in Italy, mostly learned to stand up well to the bombing of their cities. The 'terror raids' were apt to bring defiance, demands for retaliation, and motivation for war production. But morale wavered locally un