e leader'. Range was limited by the leader flying at the lower altitude of the other bombers, but forward movement of mobile transmitters as the Allied troops advanced towards Germany eased this problem. Since an Oboe-Mosquito offered no height advantage here, Oboe-equipped Lancasters were also used. But Gee-H was preferred, since it could be used by more aircraft, so allowing more targets to be attacked. To achieve close bomb grouping with larger numbers of bombers using the technique, rearward crews released their bombs after a pre-chosen delay, or when passing a Smoke Puff sky marker released by the lead aircraft. By such methods, the RAF attacked Duisburg with 1,063 bombers by daylight on 14 October 1944, following up with 1,005 bombers that night. The combined raids were the heaviest of the war, around 9,000 tons of bombs being dropped on the one city in 24 hours. US Preparations and Training for Dropping A-bombs While development of the two types of A-bomb proceeded at Los Alamos, preparations for delivering them were begun under code-name 'Silverplate'. A special USAAF unit, the 393rd Heavy Bombardment Squadron, was assigned in September 1944, 15 crews under Col. P.W. Tibbets beginning secret training at Wendover Field, Utah. Only Tibbets knew the true nature of their mission. The B-29s were given an enlarged forward bomb bay to take the plutonium type A-bomb, carried on a British 12,000lb HC bomb hook. Because a fighter escort would probably draw enemy attention, Tibbets planned an unescorted mission. The B-29s were stripped of armour and all except the tail guns, for increased performance to reduce the risk of  1944 240 DAYLIGHT BOMBING OPERATIONS interception and help to achieve a rapid getaway from the nuclear blast. The crews practised drops of dummy bombs, each drop being tracked and filmed. Rather than have the aircraft continue forward in the same direction as the bomb as it curved downwards, bomb release had to be followed immediately by a 155-degree