r 39 An SAAF/BAF Beaufighter has just hit the middle one of three small locomotives, in Yugoslavia, 1945  10 ILLUSTRATIONS 40 The yards at Monfalcone on the Gulf of Venice under attack in 1945 41 The Bielefeld railway viaduct, showing seven spans destroyed after the RAF attack on 14 March 1945 42 Central Hiroshima after the A-bomb attack on 6 August 1945 43 Stuttgart's roofless and ruined buildings - the result of the British policy of 'area bombing' 44 The B-29 Superfortress 45 A busy between-raids scene at Isley Field, a US base in the Marianas 46 US Marine Corps F4U Corsair fighter-bombers preparing for take-off 47 The RAF's bomber stream 48 'Little Boy' PICTURE CREDITS All photographs are reproduced courtesy of the Imperial War Museum, London. Introduction As befits the large and much-publicized role played by bombing against land targets during World War Two, it has been the subject of many books since that time. The majority of these have been concerned with strategic bombing, and most have dealt at length with the actions of a particular bomber force, or one bombing campaign, or bombing in one war theatre. Others have given a detailed treatment of a single important raid. This present book differs in that it attempts to bring into one volume a concise but wider coverage of the subject. It deals with tactical as well as strategic bombing. It covers all of the combatant powers, and operations in all the main theatres of the air/land war. The major bombing campaigns, and the key raids, are all included in summary form. Also it gives most emphasis to innovations in the weapons, techniques and tactics devised and used, those that worked and many that didn't. Since strafing and rocket attacks are not readily separable from bombing in tactical actions, they have been included. But space limitations have allowed only passing mention of other related subjects: strategic missiles for use against land targets, bombing in the maritime war, and defence against bombing, wh