otic War'. CWIBW: The Weapon in Reserve Only the Japanese made much use of chemical weapons during the war, and only against the Chinese who were unable to retaliate. Hard evidence for German and Allied use of CW or BW in the war remains scant, although late in the war, blight on Japanese rice crops and Colorado beetles in Germany were both ascribed to US secret BW drops. [Harris and Paxman, 1982:99]. By and large, chemical and biological warfare had remained among the great secrets of the war, contingencies to be used for retaliation if necessary. They had absorbed large resources, chemical weapons in particular being stockpiled in every theatre, to a total of 0.5 million tons. The US alone ended the war with over 100,000 aircraft spray tanks. It seems CBW was not used largely because: the ground war was much more mobile than in 1914-18, making contamination a problem for the user; air delivery made CBW a strategic element, not just a battlefield one, hence the threat of its use against civilian populations was far greater, and the results of escalating into CW were far less predictable. The Germans (with tabun) were best equipped for a CW offensive, e.g. in repelling the Normandy landings. But they overestimated Allied CW technology, noted the prevailing west wind, and thought their own Army - dependent on horses for transport - very vulnerable to poison gas attacks. The Dyhrenfurth nerve gas plant fell into Soviet hands at the end of the war; it was dismantled and restored to full production in the USSR. The Atomic Bomb: Post-war Problem The US use of A-bombs against Japan in the ultimate form of Allied area bombing, was justified publicly in terms of avoiding a million US casualties in an invasion of the Japanese homelands. But the chiefs of the US armed forces - Marshall (Army), King (Navy) and Arnold (Air Force) -  Bibliography SUMMING UP had all resisted the use of the Bomb [Kurzman, 1986:364], at least without a prior demonstration to the Japanese; and LeMay