having other influences. First, the RAF's performance encouraged German complacency with regard to the need for better night defences and dispersal of industry. Second, intelli- gence from US personnel in Germany regarding the ineffectiveness of the British night bombing confirmed the USAAC in its advocacy of daylight bombing, to achieve Consequences 125 greater accuracy. But an assessment by the US military attaché in London that the serious damage caused to Britain by the German bombing had been 'really surprisingly small' [Hastings, 1979:110] caused increased scepticism in the USA as to the efficacy of strategic bombing generally. In recognition of the accuracy problem, in July Bomber Command was directed to attack Germany's nine largest rail centres when they were visible in moonlight, and its industrial towns on other nights. But the problem was now quantified by the Butt Report on 18 August, prepared by D.M. Butt of the Cabinet Secretariat. The report's statistics showed that although on average 67 per cent of the bomber crews despatched claimed to have attacked the target, only about 20 per cent dropped their bombs within a 5-mile radius of the target. For the Ruhr with its strong defences and industrial haze, only 7 per cent of bomber crews achieved this. [Webster and Frankland, Vol.1, 1961:247] Further, although night bombing was most accurate in moonlight conditions, it was becoming less safe to operate near full moon because of the increasing losses to night fighters. In response, Cherwell proposed to Churchill the use of expert navigators, or aircraft with special navigation aids, to fly ahead of the main force, to find and mark the target; this led eventually to the RAF's Pathfinder Force. In September, the Air Staff in Britain advocated a force of 4,000 heavy bombers; Churchill was not receptive, contrasting the already high cost of the bomber offensive with the meagre results achieved. The Soviet Night Harassment Light Bombers; Women Pilots In Septemb