rch, DAF Thunderbolts, Mustangs and Kittyhawks carried out Operation 'Bowler' at Venice, destroying AA positions and then attacking warehouses and shipping. Precision bombing was essential to avoid damaging historic buildings, so to provide evidence for any enquiry the entire raid was photographed by a PR Spitfire orbiting at 20,000ft. Elsewhere, the Allied offensive against Lugo began on 9 April with bomb carpets laid by 825 heavy and 234 medium bombers, after which 740 fighter-bombers began strikes on small targets. Waves of DAF Spitfires made four strafing runs to force the enemy under cover; on the fifth run, there was no strafing but the enemy remained under cover as the ground assault moved forward. Among other tactics in use in Italy, the RAF introduced a further ground-attack variation: 'Pineapple' operations in which roving Tac/R Spitfires were used to hunt for targets of opportunity, and then call up fighter-bombers to make the attacks. At night, Boston intruders were used to attack targets of opportunity, in part to disguise night supply drops to partisans. The Soviet Offensive in Manchuria On 8 August, two days after the Hiroshima A-bomb attack, the USSR declared war on Japan, and 1.5 million Soviet troops began the last great offensive of the war, invading Japanese-held Manchuria. Having a huge superiority in quality as well as quantity of transport and arms, including 4,800 combat aircraft facing barely 300 Japanese combat aircraft, the sweep southwards was rapid. As the ground forces progressed, new airstrips were quickly cleared, and fuel was flown in to support the bombers, fighters and ground-attack aircraft as well as the tanks. The offensive ended when Japan surrendered. 271 Daylight Bombing New Allied Techniques: Command Aircraft; Smoke Markers; Radar Direction In February 1945, the US 8th AF revised its bomber formation yet again, recognizing the near elimination of the German fighter force, but increased strength of the Flak units. The basic G