itain, 12 unescorted B-26s attacked Ijmuiden power station at low level in daylight on 14 May, achieving little damage. After a repeat raid on 17 May, when the defences were ready and all 11 B-26s were lost, the policy changed to shorter range escorted missions at medium altitude. In November, the 9th AF was combined with the RAF's 2nd Tactical Air Force to form the AEAF (Allied Expeditionary Air Force). By D-Day, 2TAF itself comprised some 75 squadrons, including Polish, French, Czech, Dutch, Belgian and Norwegian as well as Commonwealth (especially Canadian) squadrons. 193 Pantelleria - the First Use of a Statistical Bombing Plan The Allied invasion of Sicily in 1943 required the prior subjugation of the nearby Italian island bases of Lampedusa and especially Pantelleria, with its fortifications and underground facilities. Under Operation 'Corkscrew' US 9th AF pattern bombing of the island's town, airfield and harbour began on 18 May. But British advisor Dr S. Zuckerman devised instead a statistical bombing plan aimed at the 16 gun batteries which could oppose Allied landings. It was based on the calculated density of bombs needed to be aimed at the batteries to achieve 30 per cent probability of destruction, leaving the rest mostly unserviceable as a result of secondary effects; the airfield and harbour were to be left usable by the Allies. This, the first such bombing plan, was implemented on 30 May, the achieved bombing density being monitored by PR and careful plotting. When the landings began on 11 June, only two batteries could mount significant opposition. The rapid capitulation of the garrison was largely credited to the prior bombing. It was the first time that a fortified base had fallen to air power. Eastern Front: the Soviet Kursk Raid Disaster; Finnish Raid By 1943, the Soviets were using fewer escort fighters, reassigning them to other duties; to compensate, the bombers flew in larger groups of 50 to 60. But Soviet tactical bombing at the front now i