erations. The Problem of Upward-firing Guns: Schräge Musik RAF bomber crews occasionally flew a paired 'Thatch weave' (crossing each other's tails) to help watch for night fighters. But with an attack imminent, the standard evasion manoeuvre was the FIU/BSDU-devised 'corkscrew', chopping the throttles one side and using full rudder and aileron to enter a violent alternating banking dive and climb. But while this could foil an expected attack, German night fighter pilots often achieved total surprise and some began racking up large scores. With Schräge Musik upward-firing guns, the night fighter's normal approach was from the side 253 and below (outside of the 'Monica' detection cone), rising up directly under the bomber, which had no ventral viewing facility or ventral armament. Thus the night fighter remained unseen and safe from attack, its pilot taking a leisurely no-deflection shot against a full plan target, aiming, e.g. for the inboard tanks in one wing; tracer ammunition was not necessary. It was well into 1944 before the British deduced the reason for their increased losses, a few bombers having survived by luck and immediate violent evasion, and struggled home with damage clearly due to strikes all at the same upward, oblique angle. [Gunston, 1976:122] Seeing a night fighter against the dark earth below could be very difficult anyway, but the Canadian 6 Group began equipping its Halifaxes with ventral turrets. Otherwise, the RAF did nothing to provide its bombers with a downward viewing or shooting capability. La Later, 'Fishpond' offered early warning of a fighter below, but even that was a mixed blessing since its use enabled the night fighter to home onto the bomber in the first place. In the Pacific, Japanese successes with upward-firing guns were less apparent, mainly because of the smaller scale of the night bombing and Japan's limited night defence capability. But US heavy bombers also usually had ventral guns. US B-29 Night Raids Against Japan; Japa