ir positions as they 233 would for Army co-operation aircraft, firing yellow smoke markers and lighting celanese strips (which looked like TIs), unaware that Bomber Command were using yellow TIs. Some crews bombed these markers despite identification of the correct ones by Master Bombers. Having failed to implement available procedures to avoid such a result, Bomber Command now backed away from close support, while the USAAF strove to improve techniques for future operations. For Operation 'Queen' on 16 November, the 800 RAF bombers took the furthest targets, destroying the towns of Düren and Julich, while Americans took the closest ones. [Carrington, 1987:188] Ground-attack Techniques Allied Use of Rocket Projectiles; Attack Techniques In Europe, the RAF was the principal user of RPs for ground attack, particularly with 2TAF Typhoons on the Western Front; in the Mediterranean and the Balkans, rocket-firing Beaufighters flew longer range missions striking buildings, bridges, trains, etc., as well as ships. The US 9th AF made its first use of RPs on 17 July with P-47s carrying four apiece, and was to fire many thousands by the end of the war. The 8th AF made little use of RPs, judging six or eight 0.5-inch guns with AP ammunition, plus GP or M41 frag bombs, adequate for most targets. Typhoon RP attacks were made in a dive of 30 degrees (or greater, if AA fire was fierce), firing the aircraft's cannons to force the AA gunners to take cover. The rockets were aimed using the gunsight, preferably directly up or down wind to avoid deflection, but pilots learned to allow for wind and gravity drop and could often hit a tank or a locomotive with one pair of RPs. To avoid accidents on the ground, it became RAF practice to position an armourer at the end of the runway to arm the rockets just before 'brakes-off'.  1944 234 GROUND-ATTACK TECHNIQUES US Strafing Attacks on Airfields; Allied Use of Flak As air opposition declined, 8th AF fighters went over more and more to a roving