viet production centres; and to the more obviously decisive US bombing of Japan. But greater concentration on the destruction of rail and oil targets, once it became possible in 1943, would probably have brought earlier and serious damage to the German war output. Speer himself believed Germany was even more vulnerable to attacks on its chemical industry. As it was, real damage was eventually done in 1944 by the bombing of German oil installations and by long range US fighters and fighter-bombers destroying the Luftwaffe and ground transport. The Bombing of Japan The early Japanese expansion had served to establish a remote defence perimeter, to keep US bombers out of range of Japan. As a result, the bombing offensive against Japan was smaller and shorter than that against Germany. Of the total of 656,400 tons of bombs dropped by all forces in the Pacific theatre, US forces dropped 153,000 tons on Japan, 98,000 tons being incendiaries. The raids on Japan, which killed 392,000 civilians, only began in late 1944, when the Japanese economy was already in decline due to the US  SUMMING UP 288 SUMMING UP naval blockade. Early attacks on the shipbuilding and aircraft industries, plus six major urban/industrial areas, gave way to the area bombing of cities. This destroyed 2.2 million dwelling-houses, (excluding 0.6 million pulled down to provide fire breaks), compared with 3.6 million in Germany. Again, there was some increase in war production; and plans to move much of it underground were in progress. But the bombing brought surrender without the need for invasion: the A-bombs and the Soviet invasion of Japanese-held Manchuria seem to have been the 'last straws'. Unlike Germany, Japan had a head of state capable of a rational decision to end the suffering. The air war on the Eastern Front differed from that elsewhere in that the air power on both sides was used almost exclusively in direct support to the huge land war. On both sides, most aircraft losses were to enemy AA