eiving the pulses from the  1941 108 Ca BOMBER SUPPORT master. Installed on the east coast of Britain, Gee provided a grid of pulses fanning out over Western Europe. An aircraft's crew could determine its position using a receiver able to measure the time intervals between received pulses, and special charts having an overlay of hyperbolic curves. Gee was the first pulsed radio navigation aid, and the first to give area coverage usable by many aircraft travelling to different destinations at the same time. Surprisingly, Bomber Command risked trials with Gee over enemy territory and on 13 August, a Gee-equipped Wellington was lost over Germany. Hoping that the Germans had not, in fact, recovered the receiver, the British quickly implemen- ted deception measures, including disguising the receiver as an ordinary radio TR (transmitter/receiver); camouflaging the transmitters; desynchronizing the pulses, and altering them to look like radar pulses. Finally, at the instigation of R. V.Jones, a spoof 'J' or 'Jay' beam system, copied from Knickebein, was set up and information leaked to German Intelligence. The spoof worked, Jay being jammed while the real Gee remained unjammed. When Jay was eventually discovered to be a hoax, jamming of it ceased, and it remained in use as a homing device for Allied aircraft right to the end of the war. Blind Bombing: Y-Verfahren; British Tries at Radar Ranging The 'Domino' countermeasure to the Y-Verfahren blind bombing system picked up the ranging signal, to amplify and relay it via the BBC TV transmitter at Alexandra Palace, the more powerful delayed signal overriding the normal return and causing the Germans to command bomb release short of the target. Y-Verfahren was first disrupted in February 1941. Then in May, examination of the equipment in crashed KG26 He111s enabled the British to devise 'Benjamin', a simpler jammer. Meanwhile, TRE adapted a CHL early warning radar for ranging in blind bombing, used with an IFF set carried by th