avoid triggering increased defences around the site. For the 'Dambusters Raid', pre-raid photos were taken from high altitude while appearing to be on course for another target, which was duly overflown before the aircraft turned for home. The pilot was instructed to bale out in an emergency, so that the photos would be destroyed in the crash. In February 1943, Dr L.E. Bayliss of the US Army Operational Research Group produced the first mathemati- cal analysis of Anti-Aircraft fire from the standpoint of its 181 avoidance by aircraft. This analysis gave a 'Curve of Total Probability' of an aircraft being hit as a function of its slant range from an AA gun. Using careful plotting of the locations and strengths of German AA sites, this start to the science of Flak Analysis led from March onwards to optimized routing and bombing run directions for 8th AF raids, to minimize exposure to guns within a critical 2,500yd radius. A noticeable reduction in flak damage and bomber losses was obtained. [Hogg, 1978:115] Allied Air-sea Rescue; Emergency Airfields With the expansion of British and US bombing operations in Britain, new ASR provisions for the Channel and North Sea included: the use of fighters (RAF Spitfire, 8th AF P-47) - able to operate close to the enemy coast - to search and drop supplies; the British parachute-dropped powered Mk.1 Airborne Lifeboat; and the British 'SARAH' VHF radio emergency beacon. Later the P-47s flew patrols over the Channel routes whenever the 8th AF was operating. On 6 September, RAF launches picked up 118 US crewmen after twelve 8th AF bombers ditched in the Channel out of fuel. With increasing numbers of RAF and USAAF aircraft, especially bombers, returning badly crippled, or in trouble because of fog, the British created a special 'Emergency Landing Ground', RAF Woodbridge ELG at Sutton Heath in Suffolk. The site was chosen for being low lying and flat, by the east coast, and relatively fog free. The first emergency landing there was mad