take the large cut-outs needed to incorporate a bomb bay, so the weapon load was to have been carried on external racks under the fuselage and wings. Finally, there was a new project for a six-engined high-altitude bomber, the Junkers Ju286. All came to nought as the priority for defence increased. German Turbojet Bombers Enter Service Apparently piqued by the exploits of the Mosquito, Hitler insisted that the twin-turbojet Me262 fighter be used as a high-speed bomber, ignoring its potential against US bombers or the Mosquito itself. Accordingly, the Me262A- 2a Stürmvogel fitted with bomb equipment (fusing/release/ sight) and fuselage pylons for 1,000kg of bombs, became the first operational turbojet-powered bomber, with raids over Northern France with KG51 in August 1944. Despite the drag of the bombs, the Me262 could evade standing patrols of Spitfire XIV and Tempest V fighters at will, in making shallow dive attacks on the Nijmegen bridge. But bombing accuracy was poor. The Me262A-2a/U2 was an experimental high-level bomber, with an extended nose housing a prone second crewman with a Lotfe 7H bombsight. The Ar234B Blitz version of the twin-turbojet Arado Ar234 introduced a conventional u/c plus bomb attachments under the fuselage and nacelles. The Ar234 was the first aircraft to have a braking parachute as standard, and the only bomber of the war to make routine use of rocket-assisted take-off, with Walther 109-500 LP units jettisoned on parachutes after burn-out. For the bombing  1944 212 WEAPON DEVELOPMENTS run, the single crewman flew the aircraft using the Lotfe 7K sight linked to the autopilot. In December, II/KG76 began operations with Ar234B-2 bombers against Allied positions during the Ardennes offensive; but they were too few and too late. The four-engined Ar234C had BMW003 turbojets in separate or paired nacelles, but none reached service. Turbojet Bomber Projects; the Sänger-Bredt Rocket Bomber Project The first turbojet-powered heavy bomber, the Junke