nd agreed, were not used. Instead, with PFF marking and a bomb line 6,000 yards beyond the front line to avoid hitting friendly troops, the bomb carpet laid by the 450 Lancasters also largely overshot the German positions, destroying much of north Caen with heavy civilian losses. The 1,000lb MC bomb craters also hampered subsequent ground movement. But although the RAF insisted on the Army accepting 'cratering' to avoid having to change bomb types [Carrington, 1987:159], 2,000 US bombers attacking the same sector used blast and fragmentation bombs to prevent further deep craters. After Allied bombers dropped a further 7,700 tons in the Caen area under Operation 'Goodwood' on 18 July, Eisenhower - and the bomber chiefs - fumed at the average of 1,000 tons of bombs being expended to advance Montgomery's forces each mile. [Terraine, 1985:656] More effective bombing came with Operation 'Totalize' on the night of 7 August at Falaise; with PFF marking on flare shells fired by artillery, 100 RAF bombers rendered the road impassable, enabling a major defeat of German forces. Some 1,113 bombers supported the paratroop and glider landings for Montgomery's 'Market Garden' leapfrogging move to Arnhem in September. But bad weather soon prevented both supply drops and close support operations. Appeals by Bennett [:251] to have the PFF use Oboe to blind drop supplies to the beleaguered troops fell on deaf ears. Heavy bombing for close support - used with inadequate briefing, liaison, and ground-to-air signals - brought risks of casualties among friendly troops. US troops were killed by USAAF bombing in Operation 'Cobra' at St Lô on 25 July. Then on 14 August under Operation 'Tractable', RAF bombers caused heavy casualties among Canadian troops. Here, the troops under attack showed their positions as they 233 would for Army co-operation aircraft, firing yellow smoke markers and lighting celanese strips (which looked like TIs), unaware that Bomber Command were using yellow TIs. Some