ic theatre, USAAF B-17 and B-26 bombers were replaced by B-24s (for longer range) and B-25s (for longer range and ability to use the shorter island runways). 166 BOMBER DEVELOPMENTS 167 Bomber Developments Among technology developments, the USAAF introduced flak curtains hung in the aircraft; these absorbed impact energy by their elasticity, and were lighter than armour plate. Deliveries of the B-17G, with a 'chin' turret to help defend against head-on fighter attacks, began in September. By November, new B-17s and B-24s had increased range thanks to internal wing-tip 'Tokyo tanks'. In Japan, heavy losses of G4M bombers, shot down in flames because of their unprotected fuel tanks, led to improvised protection in the form of sheet rubber and sponge, plus CO2 fire extinguishers. In Britain, an interim prototype for a Mk.IV high altitude day version of the Halifax flew in March; the Mk.IV was to have had increased span and two-stage supercharged engines. In Germany, a modified Me323D six-engined transport was used in an attempt to test drop an experimental 18,000kg bomb. The aircraft was given an assisted take-off, being towed by an He111Z, but began to break up in mid-air, the result of prior enemy strafing damage. The crew released the bomb but were killed in the subsequent crash. Two new US bomb-sights were intro- duced, the D-8 (for low altitude) and Sperry S-1 (for night use). In Britain, the gyro-stabilized tachymetric Mk.II SABS (Stabilised Automatic Bomb Sight) was provided to 617 Squadron for precision bombing. It was first used on 12 November, aiming 12,000lb HC bombs at the Antheor viaduct. Although much more accurate than the Mk.XIV vector sight, the SABS required a 10-mile straight and level bombing run, with the target visible, and it could not use a 'false wind' adjustment for misplaced or offset markers. Hence the more versatile Mk.XIV was retained for main force use. Advanced Bomber Projects Bomber projects of 1943 included some interesting ones. In Br