n spans destroyed after the RAF attack on 14 March 1945. 617 Squadron dropped 12,000-lb Tallboys and a 22,000-lb Grand Slam in its first operational use; this did much of the damage, with the large crater near the right of the breach. The sizes of the craters can be compared with the houses (foreground and top right).  The War's ultimate in devastation: central Hiroshima after the A-bomb attack on 6 August 1945, and some road clearance. A few reinforced concrete buildings (like the newspaper offices here at right), within a few hundred yards of ground zero, survived as shells, vantage points for international observers to come and ponder the new age of warfare. Everywhere destruction: as in many other German cities at the end of the war, Stuttgart's roofless and ruined buildings were largely the result of the British policy of 'area bombing' to achieve 'de-housing' as a means of disrupting German war production. Against Japan especially, the USAAF also adopted area bombing. B-29 Superfortress: the B-29 was only used in the Pacific theatre, primarily to exploit its great range. But at short range, its bomb load was unprecedented, as shown by these two B-29s of the US 20th Bomber Command unloading during an attack on a Japanese supply depot, near Mingaladen airfield, Rangoon, April 1945. The instability of the bombs is noteworthy. 243525 Superbombers being prepared: The ten (or more) crew B-29 Superfortress, the War's most advanced heavy bomber, in a busy between-raids scene at Isley Field, a US 21st Bomber Command base on Saipan in the Marianas. The B-29 in the foreground shows to good effect its two dorsal and two ventral gun barbettes, the guns in minimum drag (rear-pointing) position. For later night raids, all except the tail guns were deleted. 293928 The Pacific Island War: US Marine Corps F4U Corsair fighter-bombers preparing for take off at a Central Pacific island base, late in the War. Each carries a single 500-1b bomb under the belly for a strike at a Japan