rfields; KG4 bombers dropped flares for illumination. US officers were incensed at the inadequate Soviet response, four Yak-9s being scrambled out of some 40 night fighters stationed nearby, as 43 B-17s and 15 P-51s were destroyed in the 90-minute attack. [Piekalkiewicz, 1985:356] The Soviets themselves were engaging in limited night bombing, some ADD units apparently using Li-2 transports converted for bombing.  1944 248 NIGHT BOMBING Operation Steinbock; Ground Radar Direction; On the night of 21 January, 227 German bombers attacked V-weapons London in the first raid of Operation Steinbock, the 'Little (or "Baby") Blitz' in retaliation for the British bombing of German cities. It included the first use of He177 four-engined bombers against Britain, and the first use of SC2500 bombs, carried by the He177s. Most units used an RAF-style stream, turning at Lux sea buoy and flare-marked way points. The He177s used a new tactic, approaching the target in a shallow high-speed dive from high altitude; this and Düppel kept losses low. But only 32 tons of bombs hit London. In a subsequent raid on 23 February, German bombers used a 'fan' or 'compass rose' tactic, approaching from different directions simultaneously to saturate the defences. The Allies had noted the exceptional pointing accuracy, and pulse and frequency stability of German radars, and during Steinbock, the Germans exploited this feature for directing bombers, using a Freya set on the Channel cliffs. An Fw190 fighter-bomber flew along the radar beam, aligned with the target. An IFF-type FuG25A set carried by the Fw190 provided an amplified blip, watched by the Freya controller who radioed steering instructions to the pilot, ending with the order for bomb release. But the British found they could use the FuG25A's blips to track the German aircraft, even through Düppel. The Steinbock effort declined as the Germans became more hard pressed. During the four-month campaign, the Luftwaffe dropped 2,000 tons of bombs