g raids, largely unescorted, became a regular feature of the Winter War, some 7,500 tons of HE and incendiary bombs being dropped on towns, docks, railways (especially the vital Kemi-Tornio supply link to Sweden), villages, even individual farms. Fighter escort increased, and by 1940 some night raids were being flown. The Finns managed to mount a few· small-scale raids themselves, attacking Murmansk, Leningrad, Kronstadt, and Paldiski, one innovation being the use of a DC-2 airliner with underwing bomb racks and a 83 nose 20mm cannon. Overall, the Soviet forces suffered great casualties and losses, including 872 aircraft as against 61 for the Finns, but the more purposeful second-phase campaign using 2,500 aircraft in clear weather successfully wore down the Finns. Bombing in the German Invasion of the Low Countries and France The German western offensive which began on 10 May 1940, included many strikes by escorted medium bombers, against bases, troop concentrations, rail and road transport, airfields, and the French Maginot Line forts. The forts survived 500kg bombs dropped by Ju87s as well as bombardment by 28cm railway guns, but were bypassed by the German offensive. But there were other significant attacks: On 10 May, the crews of three He111s, believing they were over a French town, bombed the German town of Freiburg, killing 57 people. The shrapnel confirmed the bombs as German, but German propaganda claimed the raid to be a terror attack by French bombers, justifying subsequent German bombing of Allied towns. On 14 May, 57 He111s failed to receive radio and flare recall signals, and bombed the centre of Rotterdam while surrender negotia- tions were under way. The final death toll was 980, but the initial Dutch estimate of 30,000 forced the capitulation of Holland that evening, shocked World opinion, and - with Churchill now in power, and prepared to take a more offensive role - triggered the British night bombing of Germany. Despite these raids, strategic bo