remain rare for some time. The Germans had themselves introduced decoy lighting to help lead British bombers astray, now the British also introduced decoy factories (including night ones: QL-type with lights, and QF-type with dummy fires if the site was attacked); dummy airfields (K-type for_day, and Q-type for night); then large decoy fire sites (SF-type, or 'Starfish') for cities. The early Starfish were unrealistic, but the Luftwaffe dropped 66 bombs on a Starfish near Bristol on 2 December 1940. Some Q-type airfields were bombed even when the same site had been recognized as a K-type dummy. For London itself, lacking resources for a full AA defence, the British had relied on a 'Fixed Azimuth System' with available guns, searchlights and sound locators concentrated along both sides of the Thames estuary, the expected approach route for enemy bombers. But fires still burning from the previous night's raid, and the use of radio beams for navigation, enabled the German crews to bomb London from the south instead. In addition, the bombers flew with desynchronized engines and were often too high to be picked up by the sound locators. Luftwaffe Innovations: Fire-lighter Groups; Larger Bombs; Crocodiles In an attack on Sheffield on the night of 15 September 1940, 99 He111 bombers of KGr100 used X-Verfahren to drop incendiary bombs instead of mainly HE bombs. The result was an intense Brandbombfeld (fire bomb field), in which the brilliant white light given by the B1E1 magnesium incendiaries was visible even through overcast cloud. With this experience, in October KGr100 became the first Beleuchtergruppe (fire-lighter group) - effectively a path- finder unit, although the Germans did not use that term (Pfadfinder) until after the RAF adopted it. KGr100 used X-Verfahren to blind-bomb the target with incendiaries, to mark it visually for the main bomber force following. To minimize diffusion of bombing and the effect of decoy fires, some of KGr100's aircraft followed at in