in two days, attacking airfields and aircraft factories around Tokyo. On 17 May, P-47 fighter-bombers flew from Ie Shima, Formosa, to attack Kyushu. Elsewhere, as part of the US blockade of Japan, the Alaska-based 11th AF was systematically attacking the 65 canneries and fisheries in the Kurile Islands, which provided food for the people of Japan. By August, only 5 of the plants were active. [USSBS, 1945-49:No.70] US B-29 Daylight Operations; Jetstream Winds; Air-sea Rescue USAAF B-29 bombers on daylight raids against Japan normally proceeded to within sight of the Japanese coast, and then circled to build up their formations for the bombing run. Although the bombers were vulnerable to attack while forming up, the Japanese were now critically short of fuel as well as pilots, and waited until the formation made its move 275 and the likely target could be assessed, before scrambling fighters. But thereafter, the bombers were shadowed and fighters summoned to attack. US losses mounted, requiring either escort fighters or night bombing. There was another problem. 'Jetstream' stratospheric winds had been encountered over Europe, blowing high-flying Spitfire and Mosquito PR aircraft off course. Now, over Japan, the B-29 crews were finding winds of up to 200mph at 30,000ft. Bombing accuracy was lost due to excessive speed or drift, or - in runs made upstream, or at reduced altitude - the exposure to flak was increased; second runs over the target were seldom attempted. The effects contributed to the change to lower altitude night bombing. With ASR a major concern for the B-29 long range overwater bombing raids, a 'buddy system' was implemen- ted whereby if one aircraft was hit or otherwise in difficulties, another aircraft would detach and stay with it, circling if the other aircraft ditched, for as long as fuel reserves allowed, to guide rescue craft. All crews were required to watch for any survivors using flares or mirrors. After a mission, the B-29s flew search mission