ting via the Bay of Biscay and shallow penetration at below radar height achieved surprise, and birdstrikes became a greater hazard than enemy fighters. + 65 The Potential of the Atomic Bomb; German Nuclear Acquisitions In April 1940, Dr O.Frisch and Dr R. Peierls in Britain, prepared two secret memoranda on a 235U bomb. These advocated secret development work before the Germans, and for the first time: envisaged two hemispheres of 235U, brought together by springs to achieve the 'critical mass'; spelled out its potential (' ... a 5kg bomb would be equivalent to several thousand tons of dynamite'); highlighted the lethality of the radiation: 'radioactive material will kill everybody within a strip estimated to be several miles long ... '; and noted that 'the only defence would be the deterrent effect of possessing such bombs oneself'. With 'heavy water' (D2O) usable to slow neutrons to aid 235U fission, the entire stock of the Norsk Hydro-Electric Company in Norway, the world's sole producer, was smuggled to France, then Britain. But the occupation of Norway and Belgium enabled the Germans to increase production of heavy water at the Norsk plant and to seize Belgium's stocks of uranium ore. In Germany itself, the Army allocated funding for atomic research, under Dr K. Diebner at Kummersdorf. For the Allies, the Norsk plant, especially, was to become a vital target. In the USA, in June 1940, a secret Advisory Committee on Uranium addressed the construction of an atomic pile, while US agents began quietly buying up what was left of the world's supply of uranium ore. Navigation, Blind Bombing and Radar Navigation Systems: Broadcast Transmitters; Beacons; 'G' (Gee) and 'H' In accordance with the secret Nazi-Soviet agreement on Poland, on 1 September 1939 the Soviet radio broadcasting transmitter at Minsk near Poland's eastern border began operating for extended periods with frequent station  Cano 66 1939-40 NAVIGATION, BLIND BOMBING AND RADAR identification, as a naviga