ans had acquired an effective close support capability, used spectacularly in the German army's early Blitzkrieg offensives. After Barbarossa, the Soviets acquired the aircraft and eventually the communications for close support, and used it on a large scale. For their part, the British and the Americans gradually changed from outright opposition to major commitment, and developed ground attack to a high peak of effectiveness which came to be relied on. Late in the war, Allied ground troops were reluctant to move forward without prior heavy air attacks ahead of them. [Carrington, 1987:194] The main vehicles for ground attack were: first the dive-bomber adopted by the Germans, relying on altitude, plus a steep dive fo for accuracy; then the Soviet Shturmovik, relying on armour for survival; and finally the fighter- bomber, relying on speed in sweeping low-level passes. Later in the war, all of the combatants were using fighter-bombers to great effect, at the Front and against targets of opportunity. The weapons used also changed, with a steady increase in installed gun firepower, the German and Soviet introduction of hollow-charge bombs, and British and US use of RPs. While the Germans were the real pioneers, the Western Allies contributions to close support were various: improved 283  · SUMMING UP 284 SUMMING UP communications, cab-rank system, moving bomb line, etc. But the bulk of the German army and the Luftwaffe were destroyed on the Eastern Front, where although the Soviets excelled with the rapid staging to forward airstrips and in the use of deception, if German reports are accepted the main Soviet characteristic was the sheer weight of air power implemented rather than the finesse used. But despite heavy use of their overwhelming air superiority on both fronts, the Allies seldom equalled the early German success rate on the ground. Bombing Technology and Tactics The technology of bombing had seen steady advances during the war, with the bombers themselves; n