iving higher resolution usable, e.g. for ground imaging. German use of Blind-bombing Aids: X-Verfahren and Knickebein The invasion of Poland enabled the Germans to to try out X-Verfahren. The mobile transmitters had been moved to E. Germany beforehand, and on the first day of the invasion. He111s of LnAbt-100 made the first ever operational blind bombing attack using a radio aid, against a munitions factory near Warsaw. Further such raids followed. In Germany itself, development of the other two blind bombing aids 67 Y-Verfahren and Knickebein was continuing. In preparation for future night bombing against Britain, in December LnAbt-100, now renamed Kampfgruppe 100, began flying experimental long range X-Verfahren sorties over London, without bombs. In February 1940, after a KGr100 He111 over Britain was shot down into the sea, X-Gerät equipment was removed from other aircraft to ensure that its secret was held until needed for a major offensive. But the Germans continued to risk limited operations over Britain using Knickebein, via three huge transmitters now operational in Germany, at Kleve, Stollberg and Lorrach. Knickebein was less accurate, but did not require special equipment or training like X-Verfahren, only an extra-sensitive but ordinary-looking Lorenz FuBl1 Blind Landing receiver. Notes in a wrecked KG26 He111 in March alerted British Intelligence to Knickebein, and although crashed German bombers appeared to have no suitable receiver for it, a hidden microphone picked up a POW's remark that 'they'll never find it!'; a closer look revealed the real use of the Lorenz receiver. The British hurriedly set up a WI flight unit, with Avro Ansons fitted with VHF receivers. On the night of 21 June, one of them found the 30Mc/s Knickebein beams, intersecting over Derby. Improvised jamming of the beams (code-named 'Headache') began in August; purpose- built 'Aspirin' jammers became operational in September. By September the Germans had built nine smaller Knickebein