r 1944. A projected variant featured a rocket boost/tail unit and gyroscopic stabilization to increase range and provide greater safety for the dropping aircraft, the rocket unit breaking away on contacting the water. Air-to-Surface Guided Weapons In Germany, the first operational guided bomb, the FX1400 or SD1400X Fritz X, and the first operational powered guided missile, the Henschel Hs293A, both entered service in July. Both were Kehl-Strassburg radio-controlled air-launched weapons, operated by KG100 with Do217 carrier aircraft, primarily for anti-shipping use. The unpowered, stub-winged Fritz X gave a steep trajectory with high impact speed for an AP role, the winged rocket- powered Hs293 allowed release from further afield. Fritz X had a cruciform tail with spoiler controls and a gyro for roll stabilization; the Hs293 had more conventional ailerons and elevator. But the objective with each was to achieve an accurate hit from a safe height/distance to minimize the danger from AA fire to the attacking aircraft. After release. the weapon was steered by a controller in the aircraft on a line-of-sight course towards the target, its visibility being aided by a small flare in the tail. Within months, operations with both the Fritz X and the Hs293 were being hampered by US NRL-developed jammers, so the Allies thought; post-war, the Germans blamed poor training, unreliable equipment and use at excessive range. 171 Other air-to-surface weapons under development in 1943 included the US GB and VB-series weapons; and a Japanese IR-homing anti-shipping bomb and the Funryu 1 radio- guided missile. An Italian pre-set guided glide bomb used a glider attachment with a 1,000kg bomb; control used a gyro unit for azimuth and an air-brake for dive angle. CBW Developments: Chemical Weapon Casualties; Soviet BW Although they remained unused, the secret stockpiling of chemical weapons in all war theatres continued apace, bringing a risk of accidents as a result of enemy action. Some 8