uate defence against bombing, and hence that the best form of defence was the threat of retaliation in kind. In the 1930s only the USSR maintained a large fleet of four-engined bombers. But most of the other major powers gave emphasis to bombers rather than fighters; and most made moves towards a strategic bombing capability, with the develop- ment of new large four-engined bombers in the USA, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, and the USSR. But some  PRE-WORLD WAR TWO 26 BOMBING CONCEPTS AND TECHNIQUES rethinking then followed, not least because heavy bombers were so expensive to build and to operate. In the Spanish Civil War, both the Germans and the Soviets had engaged in limited bombing operations with a strategic element, including attacks on civilian populations, using medium bombers. But both were land powers, aware that diversion of huge resources for a strategic bombing force would leave the Army weakened, and that an early Army defeat could lose them a war before a strategic [Murray bombing campaign could become decisive. 1985:15] Nations with sea protection (Japan, Britain, USA) had more freedom to emphasize strategic bombing. But the experience in Spain led the Germans and the Soviets to conclude that for them, tactical support to the Army should come first. Medium bombers could be built in larger numbers, were more versatile, and could be used for strategic bombing if required. In Japan, the Navy rather than the AAF advocated strategic bombing, and on 14 August 1937, it carried out the World's first transoceanic bombing raid, Mitsubishi G3M2 twin-engined bombers from Taipei flying 1,250 miles overwater to strike targets near Hangchow and Kwangteh. The RAF and USAAC remained the principal advocates of strategic bombing. But whereas the RAF was building largely for area bombing as a deterrent, the USAAC saw precision bombing of oil and power plants, etc. as an economical approach to war; a relatively small force could quickly disrupt the enemy's war capacit