tless dive-bombers and fighters were soon operating from the newly named Henderson Field. With the intermediate bases on Bougainville not yet ready, the Japanese mounted desperate raids on the beachhead and airfield using Aichi D3A dive-bombers flying from Rabaul. Since this was outside the round-trip range of the D3A, experienced crews were sacrificed. Otherwise under-utilized, RAF Fighter Command supple- mented the US 8th AF's own Spitfires in providing escort cover for the 8th BC on its early daylight raids. However, fully escorted raids were limited to shallow penetration (e.g. as far as Paris or Rotterdam) by the short range of the Spitfire. For longer range raids, the B-17s were left to continue on their own. The first USAAF bombing raid in Europe was made on 17 August 1942, by 12 B-17s escorted part way, attacking marshalling yards at Rouen and Sotteville, each three-aircraft flight bombing when its leader bombed. On this and 10 further missions, no B-17s were lost, German fighter pilots hesitating to press home their attacks even when no escorts were present; the US crews joked that the B-17s defended the Spitfires. On 6 September, while unescorted, two out of 30 B-17s on the 12th US bombing mission were shot down by Fw190s, but losses on subsequent missions remained low. Despite British scepticism - noting that no attempt had yet been made to penetrate the heavy defences over Germany - on 8 October, Eaker reported his staff's conviction that even without escorts, '300 bombers can attack any target in Germany with less than 4 per cent losses' [Murray, 1985:240]. But within weeks, Eaker was enquiring about drop tanks to increase the range of escort fighters. British PR photos of bomb damage achieved in the first 8th AF raids showed impressive bombing accuracy, well above the norm achieved on the RAF's night raids. But the US policy of bombing only when the target was clearly visible was now encountering weather problems. Between 7 September and 7 November, pe