and Farman 223 Elsewhere, even in the USA for the B-17, reliance was still mainly on hand-swivelled guns with ring and bead sights. Remotely-operated Gun Barbettes Some designers were already looking further ahead. The powered, manned gun turret was bulky and heavy, and compromised the bomber's weight distribution and aerody- namics. The alternative was to have powered but unmanned gun barbettes, sighted and operated remotely from some central crew position(s). Such a system would be complex. but the individual barbettes would be much smaller and lighter than turrets. They could be sited with greater freedom, and on smaller aircraft, and they would remove gunners from the gun noise, vibration, muzzleflash and air blast exposure of the typical turret. The first such barbettes were under development: in Germany, by Dipl. Ing. W. 43 Blume of Arado, with Rheinmettal Borsig; in Italy, for the outboard engine nacelles of the new Piaggio P.108 four-engined bomber; and in the USSR, for use from the pressure cabin of the BOK-7 high-altitude reconnaissance aircraft. Balloon Cable Cutters To counter the defensive barrage balloon hazard for low flying bombers, by 1938 an explosive cable cutter for aircraft had been developed in Britain by the Martin Baker Co., and tested at Farnborough by deliberately flying aircraft into balloon cables. In use, the cable cutter was mounted outboard on the (reinforced) wing leading edge. If the wing struck a balloon cable, the cable would slide outwards along the leading edge to the cutter's anvil, triggering a cartridge-fired chisel to sever the cable. The cutters were being fitted to RAF bombers before the war started; during the war, 250,000 sets were to be made. By 1941, the Germans were fitting similar Kuto-Nase cutters to their bombers. Bomb Equipment and Bombsights Bomb Mounting, Bomb Bays; Clusters Bombs were normally mounted to a bomb rack or carrier having a longitudinal beam with fore and aft pairs of bomb steadies, and one or two sh