o believe the figures; in Moscow, Gen. P. Rychagov the C. in C. of the Baltic VVS, was executed. As in previous German Blitzkrieg operations, 'Barba- rossa' made widespread use of close air support, now with Luftwaffe tank liaison officers (Panzer Vebindungs Offizier) in UHF-equipped forward tanks, in contact with the air units. Innovations included widespread air attacks on the landline system used for communications by Soviet forces; special 15kg bombs dropped from very low level at points on the overland wire system caused great disruption. [Erickson, 1975:73] The Soviet bomber and fighter units reacted to the 115 onslaught as best they could, sometimes with improvisation and expediency. Then as the German front advanced and widened, the Luftwaffe's bombers were operating on more makeshift airfields, and were frequently moved laterally to where they were most needed. As their supply lines lengthened and Soviet resistance gradually stiffened, the Germans became bogged down, first by rain and mud, then from mid-November onwards, by the ice and snow of the formidable Russian winter. In desperately trying to unstall the offensive against Moscow, Bf110, He111 and Ju88 aircraft were switched to ground strafing of Soviet troop positions. But this brought severe losses from Soviet AA fire, while the reduction in raids against Moscow itself released Soviet fighter units to step up ground-attack operations against the German forces. Eastern Front Winter Hazards For the Germans the winter brought unexpected results with HE bombs. Those impacting on hard frozen ground were apt to shatter without detonating. Those falling into deep snow often did not detonate either, but remained as a live booby trap for personnel and vehicles, a discovery which led the Germans to strew large numbers of SD-2 bombs in key areas to hamper Soviet movements. But when a bomb did explode in deep snow, it was much less effective than normal, the snow muffling the blast. More fundamentally, the Germa