rol, offered improved accuracy; a guided glide-bomb promised both. Such categories of bomb had received spasmodic development. Wire-guided gliders had been tested by the Siemens-Schuckert Werke in 1915. A stabilized glide-bomb devised by A.Crocco in Italy was flight tested in 1920-22 as the Telebombe, a miniature biplane with a simple autopilot and servo controls. Several radio-controlled  Canon PRE-WORLD WAR TWO 48 CHEMICAL, BIOLOGICAL AND NUCLEAR experimental glide-bombs were built and tested by the Breguet company in France in 1938-39, the largest being the Breguet 910 with a 1,000kg warhead, launched from a Farman F.224 bomber. Finally, 1938 saw the first flight trials with experimental radio-guided free-fall bombs, developed under Dr Max Kramer of Ruhrstahl AG, at DVL in Germany. These used a 250kg SC250 bomb fitted with a new cruciform tail assembly incorporating the radio receiver and thickened aerofoil surfaces with built-in solenoid-operated yaw and pitch spoilers. Chemical, Biological and Nuclear Warfare Developments During World War One, some 63 different chemicals were used against personnel, incapacitating or killing by toxicit rather than by explosive energy. After the war, the USA and Japan declined to sign the League of Nations 'Geneva Gan Protocol' prohibiting the use of such weapons, but France Italy, Britain and the USSR all ratified it. All carried on with chemical weapons development in secret, and all acquired an aerial chemical warfare (CW) capability. In 1930, US Gen. W. Mitchell pointed out that it was now unnecessary destroy enemy cities, e.g. to disrupt munitions production- y to the population could be driven out by dropping gas bombs. Chemical Weapons Aside from the low-lethality 'tear gases' (White Cross gases), the chemicals usable as weapons in 1939 included- the 'choking gases' (Green Cross), e.g. chlorine and phosgene (carbonyl chloride); the 'nettle gases', lethal at the higher concentrations; the 'blood gases' (Blue Cross) princip