ber 1944 (when a conference was known to be taking place), and the Gestapo HQ in Amsterdam on 26 November. For well-defended targets, the leader marked then climbed to direct the raid by R/T, splitting the attack to approach from two or more directions. In similar US attacks, e.g. on the German Army HQ at Peltre on 8 November, P-47s used skip bombing with 500lb GP bombs. Bombs were also used by Typhoons and P-47s against V-1 sites and solidly-built 235 bridges, RPs being judged too light. The 9th AF tackled most bridges, but 197 Sqdn RAF Typhoons also specialized in this role, using 30-degree dives, releasing 1,000lb bombs with 11-second delay fuses. On 5 May, DAF Kittyhawk and Mustang fighter-bombers successfully breached the Pescara dam in Italy. Allied Techniques Against Transport Attacks against transport were usually made in a shallow dive at right angles, the RAF using RPs or cannon; US pilots found 0.5-inch AP incendiary ammunition effective, even setting tanks on fire from a rear attack. Against a train, the locomotive was usually attacked first, to immobilize it. Munitions trains often had a locomotive at each end and sometimes one in the middle, plus flak wagons for defence. But fighter-bombers could bomb the line ahead and behind the train, to stop it while other aircraft were summoned; the flak defence was met with longitudinal strafing runs. Against road convoys the approach was, again, to destroy vehicles at the front and rear to halt the column for further attacks. Air attacks materialized so quickly that the Germans removed the doors from vehicles to allow a rapid escape, and travelled with personnel lying on top, scanning the sky. When the Germans resorted to night movements to escape the day attacks, 9th AF P-47s began making evening drops of bombs having 1-12 hour delay fuses, e.g. at road junctions; this made night convoy movements hazardous. In addition, RAF Mosquitos attacked trains, convoys and other targets at night, sometimes with Mitchell b