rent, mainly because of the smaller scale of the night bombing and Japan's limited night defence capability. But US heavy bombers also usually had ventral guns. US B-29 Night Raids Against Japan; Japanese Night Raids On the night of 15 June 1944, 68 B-29 bombers from Chengtu in China made the first raid by heavy bombers on the Japanese homeland, attacking the Yawata steelworks. There were no hits on target, but the raid provided an enormous morale boost to the people and war effort in China. [USSBS, 1945-49:No.67] Because of the 'hump' air supply task involved, further night raids could only follow at intervals, and by monitoring the 'hump' air traffic, the Japanese were able to judge the likely date and size of the next raid. But this was the start of a major bombing offensive, which escalated sharply when bases in the Marianas became available. By late 1944, US day fighter superiority was forcing the Japanese to conserve their weakening bomber forces for  1944 254 255 NIGHT BOMBING limited night raids on US forward bases, small numbers of Ki-67s and G4Ms running the gauntlet of P-61 Black Widow and F6F Hellcat radar night fighters. The Effect of Radio Silence; Neutralization of the Night Fighters In January, British monitoring of German radio transmis- sions revealed that the Germans were tracking RAF bomber streams at ranges of up to 350km, far beyond normal ground radar range. Despite the likelihood that the bombers' IFF sets were being triggered, no action was taken. Then in July, test flights at Farnborough with a captured Ju88G-1 intruder night fighter revealed that its Flensburg homing set could pick up a bomber's 'Monica' transmissions at 130 miles. The light dawned. Appreciating at last that the bombers' radio and radar were attracting the German night fighters, Bomber Command ordered radio silence (no Monica, very sparing use of H2S/Fishpond, and only emergency R/T and IFF) for main force bombers on subsequent raids. The effect was immedi- ate. On the nig