apparent. On 18 December 1939, German  82 1939-40 DAYLIGHT BOMBING OPERATIONS radar-directed fighters intercepted an RAF raid heading for German shipping off Wilhelmshaven. Caught in clear skies by Bf109 fighters, which far outpaced and outgunned them, 10 of the 22 Wellingtons were shot down and five others had to ditch or crash-land back in Britain. The German report spoke of the 'criminal folly' of the British crews in maintaining course and formation, even when attacked from the side, which was out of the field of fire of the Wellington's nose and tail guns. The RAF's report was critical of those crews who did break formation to take evasive action (three did, all had survived), and noted the desirability of armour-plating, self-sealing fuel tanks, and a mid-upper gun turret. But attention quickly turned to night bombing instead. Bombing in the Soviet Invasion of Finland The second major air offensive of the war was mounted by the USSR. After imposing the use of bases in Estonia. Latvia and Lithuania, the Soviets invaded Finland on 26 November 1939. In the air, some 900 Soviet aircraft (with mainly SB-2 bombers) were deployed against the 114 serviceable aircraft (including Blenheim and Fokker C.X light bombers) of the Finnish Ilmavoimat. On the first morning, Soviet aircraft flying from Estonia dropped leaflets calling for a workers' uprising. But shortly after noon. further waves of bombers began raining HE and incendiary bombs on the centre of Helsinki and other towns. Soviet radio claimed that the bombers were dropping bread to the starving people of Finland, Soviet incendiary containers thereafter being known to the Finns as 'Molotov's bread baskets' [Condon, 1972:21]. Despite limitations due to poor weather, and the four hours of northern daylight, Soviet bombing raids, largely unescorted, became a regular feature of the Winter War, some 7,500 tons of HE and incendiary bombs being dropped on towns, docks, railways (especially the vital Kemi-Tornio supply lin