is, 1980:292] Work on the catapult continued into the war but the Air Ministry had by then sanctioned hard runways. The German Luftwaffe had far more airfields than the RAF, and paved runway construction was begun in 1939 at some of the main ones. 31 Bomber Types The Anatomy of the Bomber The conventional bomber had been evolving rapidly during the 1930s. By the outbreak of war, although there were many of obsolete design in service, most front-line bombers were now of cantilever monoplane configuration, with all-metal stressed skin construction (apart from fabric- covered control surfaces), electrical and hydraulic power systems, enclosed cockpit, fuselage internal bomb bay, high-lift wing flaps for take-off and landing, and defensive gun positions protected from windblast; some powered gun turrets were in service. Undercarriages were now retrac- table, mostly tailwheel type but with the nosewheel type coming into favour in the USA. Flying controls were still manually operated. The wing flaps varied from none at all (Whitley) to plain (most), split (B-17) and more advanced area-increasing Fowler (Hudson) and slotted flaps (Ju88). The engines were almost all four-stroke spark ignition type, in liquid (glycol)-cooled inline and air-cooled radial form. Fuel was mostly carried in internal wing tanks, which helped minimize structure weight. The newer bombers were receiving: variable pitch propellers to improve take-off and climb; a crew oxygen system for flight at altitude; a three-axis automatic pilot (like the RAF's 'George') to relieve workload; and radio for W/T (Morse) communications, using a long trailing aerial wound out then in again during flight. Few bombers had much de-icing; only the Soviet SB-2 (a single plate behind the pilot) had any armour plate protection, although it was also in train for the B-17; and only German bombers had the vitally important self-sealing fuel tanks, having a layer of unvulcanized rubber to swell up and seal bullet holes. Few bomb