offensive against Moscow, but their air opera- tions flown mainly from grass strips quickly became bogged down by rain and mud. The Soviets, operating from home bases with concrete runways, were better able to mount raids, using Yer-2, Pe-3 and Pe-8 bombers at night against the Luftwaffe airfields, with some escorted day raids against German forces. Having previously lost so many aircraft on the ground to German attacks, the Soviets were left with more crews than aircraft. These were now put to use, with the same aircraft making repeated sorties with alternating crews. But the daylight raids gave high losses from flak, the crews being ordered to bomb from 1,000-1,500m altitude. In October, the Soviets began a major campaign of dropping propaganda leaflets into areas of the USSR now occupied by the Germans. British Heavy Bombers Operational; Night Formation Bombing; 'Gee' Britain's first two four-engined heavy bomber types made their combat debuts in night raids in 1941: the Stirling on 10 February, bombing oil tanks at Rotterdam; the Halifax on 10 March, bombing Le Havre. The Stirling was disappoint- ing, while unexplained crashes of Halifaxes were resolved by correcting the rudder overbalance which could lock the rudders hard over and cause a spiral dive. But the British now had a powerful new weapon; although use of four-engined bombers had been rare in the war, for the British (and soon for the Americans) it was to become the norm for major raids. However, in March and April, some RAF bomber crews found themselves assigned to dropping packets of tea to the people of occupied Holland. Others performed 1,161 sorties aiming 1,655 tons of bombs at the battle-cruisers Scharnhorst and Gneisenau in Brest harbour, achieving just four hits.  1941 124 Cal NIGHT BOMBING Around July 1941, the RAF experimented briefly with night formation flying and bombing, using small groups of Hampdens. The attempts were made on clear, moonlit nights, the aircraft being fitted with dim blu