aries. But during October, major German daylight raids petered out, and the British came to accept 31 October as the effective end of the daylight Battle of Britain. It had already been superseded by the German night bombing of British cities. In recent estimates, during the Battle the Luftwaffe lost 1,882 aircraft, the RAF 1,255. [Terraine, 1985:219] Strategy in the Battle of Britain The Luftwaffe's failure to achieve its objectives made the Battle of Britain Germany's first serious setback in the war. The campaign had been an improvised short-term one. against the operational British fighters and bases within easy reach; without drop tanks, the Bf109 fighters had only a small radius of action as escorts, and the RAF could have withdrawn its fighters out of range if need be. But the Luftwaffe had given little priority to a longer-range night offensive against Britain's other airfields, the supply ports, or the factories which had been steadily increasing the supply of fighters to the RAF. It had relied on daylight raids, giving relatively high losses, and mainly on large fixed formations (apparently intended to intimidate) rather than many small raids that might have drawn more fighters and saturated the British defence system. In addition, the Germans had failed to increase the jamming or maintain the attacks on the CH radars. The RAF's strategy had been to ensure the survival of an effective fighter force in being, to help counter the expected landings. A fighter pilot shortage had reinforced Dowding's caution, so the fighters had been used sparingly. But confining engagements to British airspace reduced the interception rate, increased the bomb damage incurred on the British airfields, and made the air battle one of attrition. Critics were to argue later that the RAF might have destroyed German aircraft more efficiently by using either Fighter Command (by day) or Bomber Command (by night) to attack them when they were most vulnerable, namely massed on the French