e'. On the night of 11 September, 249 RAF Lancasters and Mosquitos attacking Darmstadt implemented such a 'line bombing' fan raid, using two APs, to help spread the bombing over the target area. The bombers approached along seven paths in different directions at different heights, converging in what Darmstadt survivors called Der Todesfacher (the Death Fan), releasing the bombs at varying delay times of 3-12 seconds. Darmstadt was devastated by a firestorm which took hold some 30 minutes after the last bomb dropped. Against Bru- nswick on the night of 14 October, the technique changed to 'sector bombing', each aircraft having its own course and releasing the bombs one at a time at regular intervals to achieve a more uniform density of bombing. Use of 'Tallboy' Penetration Bombs, and 'SABS' Tallboy bombs were dropped by 617 Sqdn Lancasters, normally from 18,000ft at night, using the Stabilized Automatic BombSight (SABS) against a dive-marked aiming point. Whereas a 12,000lb HC blast bomb exploded on the surface with a brilliant flash, the 12000lb Tallboy penetration bomb showed only a red pin-point of light as it exploded 90ft below the surface. The SABS required a 10-mile straight run in to the target, making a line of bombers vulnerable to flak and fighters. Also a rapid sequence was desirable, to release the last bomb before the first one exploded and began obscuring the target and/or markers. The approach adopted involved circling a point away from the target and then proceeding on converging courses towards it, at staggered times and heights to avoid collisions and bombs hitting lower aircraft. Unusually, on 7 October the sluice-gates of the Kembs dam on the Rhine were breached by delay-fused Tallboys dropped by six  1944 256 Lancasters in a low-level daylight raid. To divert the defences, a higher altitude force drew the flak, while Mustangs made gun and rocket attacks on the AA gun emplacements. On the night of 26 November, Tallboys were dropped in a raid on M