d only two further aircraft were lost from it. But for the combined missions, a total of 60 bombers were lost, an unacceptable 16 per cent. PR checks showed impressive bombing accuracy at Regensburg, and serious damage to the ball-bearing plants at Schweinfurt. But machine tools were difficult to destroy, and production at Schweinfurt was restored within four weeks. The Germans expected repeat raids and the path to Schweinfurt became better defended than that to Berlin. [Coffey, 1978:267] In the second Schweinfurt mission on 14 October, 291 B-17s crossed the mainland coast. Most of the German fighter units waited until, near Aachen, the P-47s turned for home. Thereafter, attacks on the bombers were continuous on both outward and return legs. Including several due to fog, 65 B-17s were lost (a rate of 19 per cent) and many others badly hit. Heavy damage to the ball-bearing plants was achieved, but production was virtually restored within six weeks. With 8th AF crew morale deteriorating - and diversions to Switzerland increasing - this second Schwein- furt mission brought acceptance that the concept of self-defending formations was not viable. From now on, US day bombing missions would be constrained by the availability and range capability of escort fighters. The percentage of German fighters in Western Europe had increased from 43 per cent in January to 60 per cent in October, while those on the Eastern Front declined from 33 per cent to 19 per cent. US Bombing Operations in the Mediterranean; the 15th Air Force The heaviest raids on Italy were by the RAF at night, notably one by 504 aircraft on Milan on 12 August. But US  1943 196 NIGHT TARGET MARKING DEVELOPMENTS day raids, tactical and strategic, were increasing. After RAF Wellingtons dropped 800,000 warning leaflets during the night, on 19 July 270 US B-17s and B-24s made the first Allied raid on Rome, attacking rail targets and airfields. The fall of Corsica to the Allies made its 17 airfields available. Then o