phine oxide), a third nerve gas. It was more lethal than sarin but also much more persistent, and again difficult to make. Little had been produced by the end of the war. In Britain, Churchill briefly advocated chemical warfare against Germany in retaliation for the V-1 attacks, and several Bomber Command squadrons were diverted for CW training. At this time, poison gas could be carried by Mustangs, Typhoons, Vengeances and Bostons, using 250lb and 500lb SCI canisters, or an adapted US 400lb M10 spray tank. BW Developments: Anthrax BW Bomblet; Brucellosis and Botulinus Toxin In Britain, anthrax (code-named 'N') was rated by Cherwell as 'a weapon of appalling potentiality', being 300,000 times more toxic than phosgene. While attempts to develop an aircraft spraying technique for anthrax continued, a 4lb Type 'F' anthrax bomblet developed at Porton Down was adapted for mass production in the USA under a security curtain rivalling that for the A-bomb. The first 5000 production E48R2 bomblets were completed in May 1944. A hundred of them could be carried in a 500lb cluster bomb, and released during the descent to scatter and burst in mid-air to spread the anthrax spores. Reportedly, one plan for a decisive 'knock-out blow' called for some 4.5 million1944 218 219 NAVIGATION, BLIND BOMBING, RADAR from shale, and the Allies bombed them anyway. bomblets to be dropped over Germany by 2,700 US and British heavy bombers, wiping out Germany's urban population. [Harris and Paxman, 1982:104] But while production progressed, the rapid Allied advance following the D-Day invasion kept the plan in abeyance. As a more acceptable/humane alternative to anthrax, the US developed a brucellosis weapon which offered high casualties but with low mortality and contamination lasting only a few days. Meanwhile however, botulinus toxin - rated as the most virulent BW agent of the war [Hersh: 12,97] - was also isolated, at Fort Detrick in 1944. Eight ounces of the agent, distributed appropriately