n. Surprise was achieved. The Germans were to claim 439 Allied aircraft destroyed on the airfields, but on the way there and back around 100 of the German aircraft were shot down by the Luftwaffe's own light flak batteries, whose officers had not been warned of the operation. [Gerbig, 1975:73] British Attacks Against Railway Tunnels; Napalm Destroying railway tunnels by lobbing bombs into them at low level had been used on occasion, e.g. by RAF Typhoons 267 to seal a railway gun in its hiding-place near Pont L'Evêque on 18 August 1944. Now, on New Year's Day 1945, RAF Mosquitos were assigned to destroying 15 tunnels in western Germany, mostly with success. The technique used was to approach the tunnel along the railway line at 200ft, releasing a 4,000lb delay-fused bomb to drop into the tunnel mouth. Trial approaches were made first, and in at least one case this brought the bulk of the local population out to watch. Mosquitos also made the RAF's first operational use of napalm, on the night of 18 April, seven of them each dropping two 100-gallon underwing napalm tanks on Neubiburg airfield under Operation 'Firebash'. Soviet Use of Deception in Major Offensives; US/Soviet Operation Despite their now huge numerical superiority, in 1945 the Soviets were making ever more elaborate use of deception in their westward offensives. For the Vistula crossings in January, the VVS deployed over 8,000 aircraft, but concealed the build-up by having air units rapidly flown in stages to forward airfields. Extensive use was made of camouflage for the airfields, and in the 16th Army sector alone, 55 dummy airfields were built, with 818 dummy aircraft. Flights were made into and out of these dummy airfields to aid the deception, and the Germans did indeed mount air strikes on some of them. For the offensive in East Prussia, the Soviets again made extensive use of a concealed build-up, with dummy airfields, and radio stations simulating an Air Army HQ and its units. Later, to begin the