July 1941, the RAF experimented briefly with night formation flying and bombing, using small groups of Hampdens. The attempts were made on clear, moonlit nights, the aircraft being fitted with dim blue lights to aid visibility. The technique proved possible, but showed no great advantage. On 11 August, two RAF Wellingtons made the first operational use of the 'Gee' navigation system, in a raid on Mönchen Gladbach. Gee offered more precise routing and tighter streaming of bombers to and from the target, it could be used by an unlimited number of aircraft at a time, and it did not give any transmission from the aircraft that would reveal its presence or location. Blind bombing with Gee was code-named 'Sampson', but Gee's poor accuracy at long range (around 5 miles at 400 miles from the transmitters), made it better used for general navigation and for dropping flares in the expected target area to try to obtain a visual fix on the actual target. Night Bombing Inaccuracy; the Butt Report and Bomber Command's performance in the first two years of the war had been poor, thanks to its small size, inability to find and bomb targets with any consistency, and the continual changing of target priorities; no single target was bombed heavily or often enough to put it out of action. But thanks to a lack of raid photography by RAF bombers, plus inadequate daylight post-raid PR coverage until mid-1941, the RAF had scarcely recognized the inaccuracy of its night bombing. Nor, it seems, did the British draw any lessons from their knowledge of German night bombing inaccuracy: of 54,000 tons of bombs dropped on Britain in two years of night bombing, 40,000 tons fell in open country; in June 1941, Dublin was bombed in mistake for Liverpool. However, the poor results from night bombing were having other influences. First, the RAF's performance encouraged German complacency with regard to the need for better night defences and dispersal of industry. Second, intelli- gence from US personne