ght. Low-altitude spraying of chemicals from an aircraft in flight used a special sealed tank with dispensing pipes and nozzles, and compressed gas to force out the tank contents; some smoke-laying canisters, e.g. the British SCI (Smoke Curtain Installation) were also usable. The major nations had such an operational capability. The Germans seem to have been the exception, although gas spraying trials using low-flying Do17 bombers had been carried out at Neustadt; and He115 floatplanes could carry SN50 tanks and spraying equipment in their floats. In the USSR, the experimental KhB (Khimicheskii Bojevik = chemical warrior) derivative of the STAL-5 twin-engined airliner had been designed for gas attacks. Elsewhere, in collaboration with France, using the French proving ground in the Sahara, the British had developed a high-altitude (15,000ft) aerial spraying tech- nique to reduce vulnerability to AA. It used 'HT', a derivative of the normal 'HS' mustard gas, with the  Cano PRE-WORLD WAR TWO 50 CHEMICAL, BIOLOGICAL AND NUCLEAR necessary much lower freezing point. Chemical Warfare Reappears Operational CW reappeared in 1935 when the Italian Regia Aeronautica began using chemical weapons in Abyssinia; first mustard gas bombs, then in 1936, mustard gas sprayed from the air by formations of up to 18 aircraft; then 250kg aerial-burst mustard-gas spray bombs disintegrated by time fuse at some 60m above ground. In 1937, the Japanese began extensive use of poison gas against the Chinese, with aircraft bombs and artillery shells using phosgene, chlorine and (in 1938, in its first operational use) lewisite. As the Nations moved towards war in 1939, the stockpiling of chemical weapons had become so widespread that their use on a large scale in the coming conflict seemed almost certain. Mass production of gas masks for civilian populations as well as troops became an urgent priority, notably in Britain where 50 million 'respirators' had been made by the outbreak of war. Civil defe