an areas. The parachute helped the defence: some caught in trees etc. in which case the mines did not explode; also, the slowly-dropping mines proved suitable targets for any nearby Bofors AA guns. The British 'Wallis' Proposed Penetration Bomb In Britain, the RAF ordered its first 1,000lb HE bombs; and a 2,000lb SAP bomb was first dropped by a Hampden in a raid on Kiel on 1 July. Germany was already using 1,000kg  62 1939-40 WEAPON DEVELOPMENTS (2,200lb) bombs. But Vickers' chief scientist, N. Barnes Wallis, noted that against structures of thick reinforced concrete, conventional bombs of even this size would be ineffective. He proposed a much larger (10 tons) special 'penetration' or 'earthquake' bomb, slender with a pointed nose and strengthened case, dropped from high altitude to achieve supersonic speed for deep penetration into the earth beside the target before detonation. The large explosion underground would cause a camouflet effect, the seismic shock wave shattering the foundations of the target building, splitting its base, and allowing parts of the structure to fall into the cavern created by the explosion. Wallis's proposal was judged impractical for the aircraft of 1940, but the idea was to be resurrected later, with the 'Tallboy' and 'Grand Slam'. Penetration and Liquid Incendiary Bombs; Unorthodox British Incendiaries The Germans began using incendiaries against Britain on 5 June. When hitting a house some bounced off, others crashed through the roof and ceiling to burst in an upstairs room. But already there was interest in heavier incendiary bombs, to penetrate strongly-built roofs. One such, c.June. was the first liquid incendiary, the 250kg C250GB 'Oil Bomb', filled with a heavy oil but with a central incendiary core. It was later replaced by the Flam C250C and 500kg C500, some versions of which were fused to ignite prior to impact, to help spread the contents. In Italy, the penetration problem resulted in a 20kg incendiary with an SAP nose; some