avy bombers; Churchill was not receptive, contrasting the already high cost of the bomber offensive with the meagre results achieved. The Soviet Night Harassment Light Bombers; Women Pilots In September 1941, Polikarpov R-5 and U-2 (later Po-2) biplanes were pressed into VVS service as light bombers for low-level harassment raids, especially at night. After heavy losses with daylight bombing, in October the Soviets adopted mainly night bombing, with special regiments, mostly equipped with the Po-2 'LNB' (Legkii Nochnoi Bombardirovshchik = light night bomber) having a black finish and exhaust damper/silencers. They flew in all weathers but especially on moonlit and starlit nights. Initially they flew singly at 5 to 15 minute intervals, harassing  1941 Can 126 with their constant presence over the enemy troops, forcing precautions and lost sleep. Often they cut their engines and glided down over the target area for surprise. Weapons dropped by the Po-2s included small bombs and grenades, and even - when nothing more lethal was available - bags of combustible material ignited and thrown overboard. [Boyd, 1977:131] IV 1942 Uniquely, the Soviets now assigned women crews to combat missions. Many (the 'Night Witches') flew night Po-2s, others Pe-2 bombers, and fighters. British Work on Target Marker Bombs Although the British had improvised one in the 1920s [Saward, 1984:39], no purpose-designed target markers for night bombing had been introduced. The Luftwaffe (and later, the USAAF in the Pacific) relied on flares and conventional incendiary bombs for night target marking. But in Britain, spurred by the Butt Report, development of a purpose-built marker began late in 1941. A radio marker bomb containing a homing transmitter was abandoned due to problems of impact survival (or wind drift, if parachuted down); vulnerability to jamming; and the detection resolution needed for accurate bombing. A special pyrotechnic marker had the advantage over a simple incendiary in that d