th Britain. Nuclear Weapon Developments: Plutonium In July 1941, the Maud Committee in Britain made the first official recommendation to develop an atomic bomb, in a report to the British Government. In October, the British set up a small secret unit (cover-named 'Directorate of Tube Alloys') to begin work on such a bomb. The Maud Report was provided to the USA and it strongly influenced the US Government to escalate nuclear research. Meanwhile, a new possibility had emerged. In June 1940, physicists in Vienna and in the USA had independently discovered that the non- fissionable uranium 238 could absorb neutrons, transforming into a new element, later named plutonium, that ought itself to be fissionable. Now, in March 1941, physicists led by Prof. E. Lawrence, using the Berkeley cyclotron, obtained the first minute quantities of plutonium 239, and found that it could indeed be used as an alternative, and more readily obtain- able, bomb material. The Americans had now adopted the more practical graphite as a nuclear pile 'moderator'; the Germans had concluded (wrongly) that it was unsuitable, and remained committed to using heavy water. Navigation, Blind Bombing and Radar Radar Jamming by Air-dropped Foil Strips: 'Window' and 'Düppel' The first improvised dropping of foil strips (later 'chaff') to 107 jam enemy radars was made by RAF Wellingtons during a raid on Benghazi in September 1941, with no obvious effect; the AA guns were in fact controlled using sound locators, not radar. Later, TRE began systematic trials with reflector strips, under the code-name 'Window', some in the form of metallized propaganda sheets, optimistically advocated as a means of disguising its true purpose. [Cruickshank, 1977:88] The strips needed to be of length equal to half the wavelength of the radar to be countered. When illuminated by the radar, each strip acted as a half-wave dipole resonating and re-radiating the signal. Released from aircraft, dispersing and drifting down in large n