tially much less one-sided than the Winter War. The VVS bombed 15 Finnish towns on 25 June, but heavy engagements against 119 the Germans prevented a sustained offensive. This enabled the Finns to release fighters from home defence, and move them forward for strafing attacks on Soviet troops, and for bomber escort, as their forces commenced recapturing territory ceded to the USSR. On 30 July, the RAF bombed Liinahamari. The Finnish bomber force of mainly Blen- heims was soon supplemented by captured Soviet SB-2 and DB-3 bombers passed on by the Germans, but it remained small. It was used primarily in support of ground forces, with attacks at or close beyond the Front Line. By November, the Finnish advance brought cannon-armed Morane 406 fighters within range to support Blenheim bombers in attacking the Soviet Murmansk railway now bringing in Lend-Lease supplies. Soviet Long-range Parasite Dive-bombers An original concept in air warfare, the parasite dive- bomber, made a brief appearance in the USSR. After his arrest and internment, Vakhmistrov's work on parasite fighters was adapted as a means of achieving a long-range dive-bomber force. Under a Zveno II programme, a special unit of the 92nd Fighter Regiment was equipped with six modified TB-3 carrier aircraft and 12 I-16SPB dive-bombers (SPB for Skorostnyi Pikriruyushchii Bombardirovshchik - fast dive-bomber). Each carrier was to transport two SPBs (each with two 250kg FAB bombs) mounted under the wings, and release them in flight. Carrying the SPBs close to the target before release and allowing them to return to base under their own power gave a 1,200km radius of action. After the German invasion, the unit stationed in the Crimea reportedly made 30 operational sorties before being disbanded. On 10 August 1941, two TB-3s each released two SPBs in a night attack on a Danube crossing point being used by German forces, the rail bridge at Cernavada; all six aircraft returned safely. Later (c.1942) the Germans were the