ted air to warm the engine. In addition they rolled the airstrip snow to compress it, aiding take-offs and suppressing snow clouds. By December, the Soviets were flying four times as many sorties as the Germans. Daylight Bombing British Daylight Raids: 'Circus' and 'Cloud Cover'; use of B-17 Fortress After 'Rhubarb' fighter sweeps had failed to draw significant Luftwaffe opposition, on 14 June the RAF began 'Circus' operations: short range escorted daylight missions into Northern France, with 2 Group Blenheim light bombers attacking airfields and industrial targets. Later, 'long range Spitfires with increased internal tankage allowed greater radius of action. But the raids were largely ineffective with substantial losses, and failed in the objective of drawing Luftwaffe squadrons from the Eastern Front. In December. the RAF began occasional small 'cloud cover' daylight raids ('Moling' for specific targets, 'Scuttle' for targets of opportunity), in weather which would allow the bombers to remain in cloud for most of the flight, emerging below or into gaps in the cloud to find and bomb the target. But of 190 Moling sorties by mid-1942, over half were abandoned due 117 to inadequate cloud cover; only five crews bombed their targets. To help develop the strategic bombing capability of the (officially still neutral) USA, a secret liaison with the British was implemented. USAAF personnel in civilian clothes were assigned to Bomber Command bases, observing and attending briefings. In 1941 Britain received twenty B-17C bombers, which by US theory would allow unescorted daylight bombing at high altitude. No.90 Squadron RAF, with the Fortress I bombers, was formed in May. The high-flying Fortresses being unpressurized and unheated, crewmen aged under 25 were specially selected after fitness and oxygen tests to ensure they could withstand the 30,000ft altitude and ambient air temperature of -50 degrees C. Raids began on 8 July, with three aircraft over Germany. US advisors tra