res, even though the crews carried water and syringes for such an eventuality. A proposal to edible-wrap the wafers in the hope that rats might drag them into basements and start fires was not tried. Chemical Weapons Developments; Spray Glide-bomb; Anti-crop Chemicals In September 1939, the British and French agreed with the Germans, via Swiss mediation, to abide by the Geneva protocol and not use poison gas. But the Poles reported the dropping of mustard gas on Warsaw, and the Germans claimed the Poles used British-supplied chemical weapons against them. On 19 September, a speech by Hitler warned of 'fearsome new weapons', possibly the nerve gases, for which a secret new plant at Dyhernfurth was authorized in that same month. The Allies, who failed to develop such weapons throughout the war, assumed the speech was a bluff. In 1940, Britain's Porton Down Establishment was developing a 'Flying Cow' unguided glide bomb, intended to dispense a swath of mustard gas drops during its descent [Harris and Paxman, 1982:52]. It seems the 400lb weapon was later stockpiled and supplied to the US 8th AF. The principal new Allied chemical weapons of the war were anti-crop chemicals. In 1940, in Britain, aerial spray  64 1939-40 tests of herbicide types 1313 and 1414, developed by ICI, showed 1lb per acre could destroy most crops by arresting growth; stockpiling was begun. Proposals to contaminate (rather than to destroy) crops, by spreading toxic chemicals, e.g. arsenic, were also made. A 1941 plan to have Bomber Command saturate German food-growing areas with chemicals was shelved because of the large scale of operations needed, and because Britain was judged vulnerable to attacks in kind, whereas the Germans had wide access to crops in the occupied countries. [Harris and Paxman, 1982:98] Later in the war, the US Fort Detrick developed new anti-crop chemicals having a hormone-like effect on plants, causing them to grow rapidly and die. Two of these, dichlorophenoxyacetic acid an