e US Live Bat Programme; Trail Weapons In February 1942, Roosevelt authorized US work on a proposal to use bombers to drop large numbers of live bats over Japan, based on an erroneous report that the Japanese people were inordinately afraid of the creatures. Later. experiments began, under Dr L. Feiser of Harvard, on the use of live bats, each carrying a tiny incendiary device surgically attached to its chest by string. The bats were to be air-dropped over Japanese cities, it being hoped that they would roost in buildings. Irritated by its load, each bat would gnaw through the string to release the bomb, which would self-ignite. Research included ground trials in which some bats escaped, damaging an aircraft aft hangar and a general's car; and air-drop trials in which some bats failed to leave their crates and were killed on impact. The programme was eventually abandoned in 1944. Despite the importance of overhead power and telephone lines, use of airborne trail weapons against them seems to have been sporadic at best. In Germany, a purpose-built trail weapon was tested from a Ju88 in 1942. Evolved from an anti-aircraft cable bomb, this SBO 53 Sagebombe (saw bomb) consisted of a spherical weight on the end of a 400m-long steel cable deployed from a reel inside the 135 aircraft to catch, and rip out, any overhead lines below. The device worked, but required considerable skill by the pilot, and it received little or no use. Soviet reports indicate that at times VVS Po-2 biplanes, trailing a grappling iron on a rope, made low-level sweeps over German rear areas to rip away telephone wires. Later, on 4 March 1944, RAF Mustang fighters trailing meat hooks on cables were used to sever telephone wires behind Japanese lines in Burma. CBW Developments: German Nerve Gases; the British Anthrax Bomb With a new 500lb LC phosgene bomb being tested, early in 1942 Churchill promised Stalin that Britain's 'immense stock of gas bombs for discharge from aircraft' would be used against