umps hidden in forest areas in France were destroyed by RAF bombing using Oboe. But despite the evident capability against 'key' targets, Harris continued to place emphasis on area bombing.  1944 252 NIGHT BOMBING PFF Route Planning; the Nuremburg Raid; Bomber Command Losses For major RAF raids, the PFF normally planned the flight routes. Multi-leg ones were usual, the course changes helping to disguise the target, but the increased distance reduced the bomb load which could be carried. TIs dropped to mark the turn points had been phased out, since they attracted enemy night fighters, and without them course changes made navigation more difficult. On moonlit and short summer nights, more direct routes could reduce exposure to night fighters and flak. For the Nuremburg raid on 30 March, the proposed PFF indirect route was rejected for the first and only time, for a straight 265-mile run-in to the target, favoured by other Groups. Thanks to this, and to condensation trails which formed at exceptionally low altitude and showed clearly in the moonlit skies, 96 of the 782 bombers were lost, the line of burning wreckage helping to show the night fighters the track of the bombers. It was the RAF's most disastrous raid of the war, and signalled the end of the single bomber stream. The Battle of Berlin cost Bomber Command 1,047 aircraft missing, the PFF alone losing 150 per cent of its November 1943 strength; aircrew morale declined. Just as the US day bombers needed fighter escorts, the British night bombers now needed heavy support by intruders to counter the German night defence. With only limited support available, while the Americans were gaining ascendency by day, the British were losing it by night; the Germans could afford to assign some of their night fighters to day operations. The Problem of Upward-firing Guns: Schräge Musik RAF bomber crews occasionally flew a paired 'Thatch weave' (crossing each other's tails) to help watch for night fighters. But with an attack