fe Bf109E and Bf110C Jagdbomber fighter-bombers had already carried out low-level bombing attacks against shipping and against the British CH radar stations. But in September 1940, they were introduced for high-level strategic bombing, Göring apparently reasoning that as the fighters had failed to provide adequate escort protection for the bombers, the fighters should carry the bombs themselves. Seven fighter wings each began conversion of  C 92 1939-40 NIGHT BOMBING one squadron into fighter-bombers, the Bf109 to carry one 250kg bomb, the Bf110 two 250kg bombs and four 50kg bombs. The first operational use came on 24 September, in a raid on the Supermarine factory at Southampton. Early raids were made at around 18,000ft, with fighters escorting a central group of fighter-bombers, but British fighter pilots soon made the inner group the primary target. In response, raid altitudes were increased, and the fighter-bombers spread through the whole formation. The experiment was no great success. Bomb loads were small (nuisance only), bomb aiming was rudimentary, and the pilots were eager to release their bombs as early as possible in order to revert to their 'real' role, as fighter pilots. [Galland, 1959:50-1] Nevertheless, the British found these escorted fighter-bombers difficult to counter when they began to fly at altitudes of 30,000ft or more. Night Bombing The First Leaflet Raids of the War; Leaflet Balloons On Britain's first night of war on 3 September 1939, ten RAF Whitley bombers dropped 13 tons of propaganda leaflets over Hamburg, Bremen and the Ruhr, in the first of many such raids under Operation 'Nickel'. Leaflet drops were also soon implemented by the French in Germany, by the Germans in Poland (apparently along with bank notes to depreciate the currency) and by the Soviets in Finland. But a sceptical Air Ministry saw the RAF's leaflet raids as 'special reconnaissance missions', providing practice in night navigation and target finding over blacked-out ene