ions. But the defences were ready thanks to the decoding of a US radio message and, in part' because of a delay when the lead group made a turn at the wrong landmark. The B-24s formed large, slow and steady targets, and many of the 52 lost fell to the intense light flak over the target area. The damage caused to the refineries was considerable, taking eight months for production to return to pre-raid levels. But the price paid in aircraft and crews had been prohibitive. The US Schweinfurt and Regensburg Missions The town of Schweinfurt, with its five ball-bearing factories was top of the Allied 'Pointblank' list of 76 key German targets. It was the one to fully test the theories of selective precision daylight bombing and the self-defending bomber formation. It required a much deeper daylight penetration into Germany than had been attempted before, unescorted for most of the way, and under attack by relays of German fighters, there and back, such that consumption of ammunition was itself a major problem for the bomber crews. Operation 'Double Strike' on 17 August 1943 was the biggest 8th AF operation yet, and the first with shuttle bombing. For deception, the Schweinfurt task force, with LeMay himself flying, was preceded by another one attacking the Messerschmitt factory at Regensburg and then 195 heading southwards over the Mediterranean to North Africa. In the two forces, 363 B-17s eventually crossed the mainland coast, with initial and return escort provided by US P-47s and RAF Spitfires. Beyond escort range, both forces came under almost continuous attack, including by air-to-air bombing and rocket mortars, many fighters achieving several sorties from different bases as the running battle progressed. The turn southwards by the Regensburg force was not expected by the Germans and only two further aircraft were lost from it. But for the combined missions, a total of 60 bombers were lost, an unacceptable 16 per cent. PR checks showed impressive bombing accuracy at