ing the wind': the German night blitz on Britain was the first major bombing campaign against cities. Here, in Eastcheap, London Fire Brigade crews attempt to limit the damage from incendiary bomb attacks. The War's evolved firebombing technique used GP bombs to break water mains and create rubble and craters to hinder firetrucks, blast bombs to smash roofs and windows for air for the fires, then the incendiaries themselves. Tri-motor bomber: Italy's fastest bomber, the Cant Z1007bis, used especially in high-level bombing by tight formations, including against Malta. The curious dorsal V-shaped feature is a manually handled gun with an aerodynamic balance - a metal tube raised at the opposite angle to counteract the air loads on the gun. The unique Shturmovik: as important to the Red Army as bread, was Stalin's view of the 11-2 Shturmovik. Built in greater numbers than any other aircraft of the War, it was one of the most effective ground-attack aircraft on any front. The heavy armour plate gave the 11-2's crews the extra confidence to press home their attacks through a storm of AA fire. Destruction incomplete: apparently severe bomb damage to factories could often be cleared and repaired quickly. This photo shows part of the devastation achieved in the RAF raid (of 3 March 1942) on the Renault factory near Paris, making trucks for the Wehrmacht. Under the debris, most machine tools survived or were repairable, and only two months' production was lost.  Fast and effective: Petlyakov Pe-2 bombers taxiing on a bleak, wintry Soviet airfield. The two-seat Pe-2 was one of the more successful and versatile light bombers of the War, with air brakes for dive-bombing and later used in that role. RAF Hurricane pilots flying escort for Pe-2s near Murmansk in autumn 1941 were surprised at the throttle level needed to keep pace with them. Desert dust plumes: an unusual view of RAF Boston light bombers on a featureless North African desert airfield in 1942, starting engines in pr