ll above the norm achieved on the RAF's night raids. But the US policy of bombing only when the target was clearly visible was now encountering weather problems. Between 7 September and 7 November, persistent overcast allowed only three missions. With B-24s now arriving, on 21 October a mixed force of 90 B-17s and B-24s applied the new US precision bombing against the submarine pens at Lorient. Further such raids followed, including two-phase attempts with 1,600lb AP bombs intended to crack the concrete, then 2,000lb GPs to collapse it. But despite some direct hits achieved, the 4m thick concrete roof over the pens remained intact. Evidently, some targets would require special heavy bombs, possibly ones beyond the capability of the high-altitude day bombers.  1942 158 NIGHT BOMBING Development of US 8th Air Force Bomber Formations During autumn 1942, largely at the instigation of Col. C. LeMay, the 8th AF began reviewing its bomber flight formations. The objective was to combine mutual defence against fighters, altitude stagger to reduce risk from ground AA fire, and a compact bombing pattern with minimum risk of aircraft being hit by bombs from aircraft above. It resulted in the most elaborate three-dimensional bomber formations of any air force in the war. Early raids had used a one-level formation for a group of three separate squadrons, each of six aircraft flying as two elements of three in an asymmetric double arrowhead or 'M' formation. In September, the Group rather than the squadron became the basic combat 'box', the 18 aircraft flying as two staggered units of nine, with each nine aircraft in a spanwise asymmetric triple arrowhead formation. By the end of the year a new formation had been devised in which the three aircraft of each element were staggered in altitude (lead, high, and low), the three squadrons flying in a similar asymmetric arrowhead, arranged the opposite way to the element, as the standard 'combat box'. To help build the formation, each Gr