ancaster; Martin 101  Can 1941 102 WEAPON DEVELOPMENTS B-26 Marauder; Dornier Do217; and Sukhoi Su-2. Diesel-type aero engines promised improved fuel con- sumption with a less flammable fuel, but were heavy and only the Germans and Soviets had major development programmes for them. The Soviets introduced the war's only diesel-engined heavy bombers, some Pe-8s being re-engined with M-40 (later redesignated ACh-40) diesel engines; but the engines had received insufficient development to be reliable. In Germany, manned turret development lagged well behind British and US achievements, but a bigger advance, the remotely-controlled gun barbette entered service in 1941, on the Me210. This FDL131 (Fernbetätigte Drehlafette) system used a control handle to cause gears and linkages to clutch in two electrically driven friction drums, to move the gun in azimuth and elevation respectively. The improved FDSL system followed. Bomber Projects; the British Glider-bomber; Bombers as Missiles In November 1941, the US Army ordered prototypes of the Northrop XB-35 flying wing bomber, and the six-engined Consolidated XB-36 - a huge strategic bomber intended to be able to bomb targets in Europe from bases in the USA in the event of a German occupation of Britain. Both eventually flew in 1946. Some of the interesting bomber projects of 1941 did not materialize. Among them was the first British project for a turbojet-powered bomber; designed by the Gloster Aircraft Co., it featured four Rover W2B engines buried in pairs in the wings. Another was the Hawker P.1005, with twin Power Jets engines. In Germany. the Hs130B bomber version of the Henschel Hs130A twin-engined high-altitude reconnaissance aircraft was not built. But work began on the BV238-Land (later BV250), a land-based derivative of the very large six-engined BV238 flying boat, to be usable as a long range strategic bomber or transport aircraft; because of the high wing, the undercar- riage included tall wing outriggers as well a