by the Soviets in Finland. But a sceptical Air Ministry saw the RAF's leaflet raids as 'special reconnaissance missions', providing practice in night navigation and target finding over blacked-out enemy territory. Later in the war, RAF Operational Training Units were to drop leaflets into German-occupied countries, while main force bombers carried leaflets along with their bomb loads on raids into Germany itself. The British leaflets ('Nickels') eventually saw a variety of forms: single sheets, booklets, newspapers, forged ration cards, etc. Britain's No.1 (and only) Balloon Unit began launches of 93 leaflet-carrying balloons from France on 30 September 1939, the balloons drifting eastwards over Germany. The hydrogen-filled balloons carried bundles of leaflets tied on by string. A slow-burning wick burned through the string pieces, releasing bundles periodically. The British Adopt Night Strategic Bombing; the Target Visibility Problem For the RAF, the main conclusion from the disastrous daylight raid on 18 December 1939 was inescapable: the loss rate was ten times the level Bomber Command had estimated it could afford. But the alternative was already clear. For three months, Whitley bombers had been roaming at will across Germany at night, dropping leaflets; and the Germans were making little effort to improve their AA and night fighter defences to stop them, even though these leaflet raids were clearly giving useful experience for night strategic bombing. But the visibility of landmarks and targets from the air at night was questionable. A Bomber Command report in October had noted that under moonlit but ground blackout conditions it would be impossible to see separate buildings, let alone features like tall chimneys or towers, from normal bombing heights. So, in February 1940 five Whitleys were sent over Germany to investigate the ability to see and identify rivers, cooling towers, marshalling yards, etc. from different altitudes. One crew got lost, others reporte