lips to track the German aircraft, even through Düppel. The Steinbock effort declined as the Germans became more hard pressed. During the four-month campaign, the Luftwaffe dropped 2,000 tons of bombs on Britain, while the RAF dropped 25 times as many on Germany. [Middlebrook, 1983:76] With raids on Britain by German bombers becoming rare, day and night missile attacks aimed at London began on 13 June with ground launches of the Fieseler Fi103 (V-1) flying bomb, supplemented from 9 July onwards by night air launches from He111 carriers from over the North Sea. Attacks by the Army A-4 (V-2) ballistic missile began on 8 September. V-2 attacks on Antwerp followed. British Flare and Marker Developments; Deception Techniques With the brightness of a flare blinding crews' eyes to detail 249 on the ground, in January the British introduced a hooded flare having an opaque umbrella-shaped canopy to shield the light from observers above. The PFF also began using cluster flares, with seven 4.5-inch flares in a 1,000lb case, or four in a 500lb case; delay capsules allowed deployment in a vertical chain with up to 600ft separation between them. Also in January the PFF introduced a TI 'Floater' skymarker which ejected 25 candles on separate parachutes, to float down in a group. Later, German successes with decoy markers led the British to introduce other new TIs to try to keep ahead. One type had candles tied in bundles of three, giving fewer but brighter light sources. A Change Colour type had layered candles giving colours alternating every 15 seconds. Another had candles giving two Morse letters alternately. A Multiflash type gave repeated four-second red flashes. In April, a much larger TI was introduced, consisting of a 1,000lb bomb casing containing 200 candles; delayed ignition of different candles gave four optional burn times of up to 20 minutes. To stem increasing bomber losses, the RAF implemented further deception measures: broadcasting fake test signals prior to raid