en unserviceable and dummy aircraft, and dummy guns. Dummy airfields were bombed at times, and had 'friendly' aircraft land on  1941 114 GROUND-ATTACK DEVELOPMENTS them by mistake. To enable operations in the wet Algerian winter especially, some Allied airfields were given Sommerfeld tracking or (later) the US PSP (Pierced Steel Plate), the latter being much heavier and bulkier to transport but less prone to sink into the mud. When they were able eventually to advance, the RAF usually found it easier to create new airfields than to clear the ploughed, mined and booby-trapped old ones. German Blitzkrieg in Operation 'Barbarossa' June 1941 brought 'the most devastating pre-emptive attack ever visited by one air force upon another' [Boyd, 1977:108]. Ignoring evidence from PR sorties, intelligence reports, and foreign governments, Stalin had refused to believe that a German invasion of the USSR was imminent. VVS units were denied permission to pull back from vulnerable front-line airfields, or to disperse, camouflage and protect their aircraft. Early on 22 June, 30 He111, Ju88 and Do17 bombers began Operation 'Barbarossa', crossing the frontier at maximum altitude to avoid detection, then descending in groups of three to hit ten key Soviet airfields just as the German ground forces began rolling. At sunrise, 1,250 Luftwaffe bombers, dive-bombers and fighters began continuous attacks on 66 airfields carrying almost 70 per cent of the Soviet operational combat aircraft. The Soviets had only a few RUS-1 and -2 radars for early warning, and were unprepared anyway. Some 1,200 Soviet aircraft had been destroyed by noon, mostly on the ground; the total reached 1,800 (for 35 German aircraft lost) by the end of the first day, over 4,000 in the first week. In Berlin, Göring refused to believe the figures; in Moscow, Gen. P. Rychagov the C. in C. of the Baltic VVS, was executed. As in previous German Blitzkrieg operations, 'Barba- rossa' made widespread use of close air support, n