cluded. But space limitations have allowed only passing mention of other related subjects: strategic missiles for use against land targets, bombing in the maritime war, and defence against bombing, which are major subjects in their own right. The form of presentation adopted is perhaps unusual. Given the diversity of the material covered, it was found convenient to subdivide it into individual or related topics, which are then grouped under appropriate headings. The work is mostly presented in approximate chronological order - year by year - to help show the various technical and operational developments as the war progressed. While the basics of bombing remained much the same throughout the war, six years of intensive development, of responding to the enemy's capability, and of learning from one's own mistakes, produced many, many changes. 11  Abbreviations 12 INTRODUCTION Much of the information compiled in the text relies on research spadework performed by many writers, for which this author is very grateful. All of the main sources used are listed in the bibliography, but books found particularly valuable include the writings of: Chaz Bowyer, Michael J.F.Bowyer, Roger Freeman, William Green, Bill Gunston. von Hardesty, Max Hastings, Ian V.Hogg, R.V.Jones, Norman Longmate, Martin Middlebrook, Kenneth Munson, Gordon Musgrove, Roderic Owen, Janus Pie- kalkiewicz, Alfred Price, Winston Ramsey, Dennis Richards and Hilary St.George Saunders, Christopher Shores, Peter C.Smith, Martin Streetley, John Sweetman, John Terraine. Anthony Verrier, Kenneth Wakefield, and Charles Webster and Noble Frankland. The staff of the Imperial War Museum (photographic) and Royal Air Force Museum (library) were very helpful in finding material. In the text, place names have been left anglicized (Cologne, rather than Köln, etc.), while imperial and metric units have been retained as appropriate for the country of origin. A further small point: throughout the text, reference to some night a