g Dessau. On 18 April, 978 Lancasters, Halifaxes and Mosquitos inflicted huge destruction on Heligoland and Dünne. With the end of the European war in sight, on 29 April 273 under Operation 'Manna', Allied bombers began PFF- marked low-level daylight food supply drops to near- starving civilians in occupied Holland. After VE-Day, the bombers were again adopted as transports to bring home Allied POWs in their bomb bays, under Operations 'Exodus' (Europe) and 'Dodge' (Middle East). Late Soviet Use of Strategic Bombing; German use of Missiles Only in the last weeks of the European War did the Soviet long-range bomber force, the 18th Air Army, begin mounting large-scale strategic bombing raids on major German centres. The first big daylight raid, by over 500 medium bombers with 108 escort fighters, came on 7 April, attacking Königsberg. Other raids were mounted against Budapest and Berlin. Post-war analysts were to criticize the failure of the Soviets to make concerted attacks on German rear areas, supply routes and industrial centres until long after they had achieved overwhelming air superiority. [Hardesty, 1982:217] German RSHA plans in 1944, to drop Henschel Hs293 anti-ship missiles to home onto radio transmitters placed by agents at key targets in Britain, had not materialized. But now, in trying to hold up the Soviet advance, Hs293 and Fritz X missiles did get used against land targets, notably against bridges over the Oder in April 1945. Japanese Difficulties in Outlying Bases In the Pacific, by 1945 the Japanese were able to mount only token offensive operations, due to a combination of primitive jungle conditions, logistic support curtailed by US Navy blockade, US air strikes, combat losses, and a lack of an Air-Sea Rescue service. Whereas the US forces were well supplied (with earth-moving equipment, vehicles, medi- cines, pesticides, etc.) and were able to build many more airfields, the Japanese had few bases, had to rely on manual labour (for hiding aircraft