chniques; Time-and-bearing; the Bassingbourn Error For the early British night raids, most sorties were individual ones; the tight bomber stream awaited the coming of 'Gee'. The pre-flight briefing gave no prescribed route, time of attack, or bombing altitude. Each crew made its own way, and bombed as convenient. Some crews desynchronized engines to foil sound locators (as did many German crews). Some preferred to bomb from as high as possible to reduce AA accuracy. Others adopted a glide approach with the engines throttled back, to counter sound locators and cause the radar (if any) to give a misleading altitude setting for the flak. To try to improve night bombing in the absence of radio aids, in January 1940 Bomber Command began exercises employing timed directional runs from a recog- nizable landmark near the target, and then bombing blind. The technique was first used in June, with Rotterdam as the landmark for an attack on a troop concentration 35 miles away. But even for short timed runs, blind bombing by such methods gave poor accuracy. 'Bombing on ETA' (Estimated Time of Arrival over the target) became discredited as a policy, although still used by individual crews. But the difficulty of inflicting real damage by bombing was also becoming more evident. On the night of 27 May, a magnetic storm upset the compass of a Whitley sent to attack an airfield in Holland. The crew, lost, mistook the Thames estuary for the Rhine and bombed RAF Bassingbourn instead. This mistake gave Bomber Command an oppor- tunity to make a direct assessment of its bomb damage in a realistic case, but the ordnance experts were discouraged to find the damage so slight. One result was increased interest in bigger bombs.  96 1939-40 NIGHT BOMBING Civilians Become the Main Target: The Switch to Attacking Cities On the world scene, bombing of cities (by the Japanese, Germans, Soviets, and British) had been escalating steadily. In the bombing war between Britain and Germany, the British wer