bat Wing maintained formation up to the IP (Initial Point - a chosen visual/radar landmark). It then split, the three Groups proceeding independently, with course changes to avoid heavy flak, then a 70-second steady run-in over the target to release the bombs. For a large Task Force, the several Combat Wings flew with five-minute gaps between them. Building up the formations with many aircraft taking off from different bases required much time and fuel, reducing the bomb load and giving the Germans ample warning of a raid on the way. To help, in May the 8th AF began using the RAF's 'Splasher' ground radio beacons as rendezvous points, then in October their own 'Buncher' beacons when more were needed; the frequencies used were changed daily to counter German jamming. Since climbing through cloud in formation was dangerous, the bombers normally climbed individually and formed up above the cloud. On their return, crews with damaged aircraft or wounded on board fired red distress flares for priority in landing. The remainder retained a loose formation in a holding pattern, peeling off to land at 20- second intervals in a set sequence: low, lead, then high squadrons. Weather Problems for the US 8th Air Force On 27 January 1943, the 8th AF mounted its first mission into Germany, 64 B-17s bombing Wilhelmshaven when the primary target was overcast. Use of the British Gee was  1943 190 DAYLIGHT BOMBING OPERATIONS soon implemented for overcast conditions, but the weather continued to give the 8th AF serious problems. Mud on the British airfields, thrown up onto the ventral 'ball' turret during take-off frequently made it all but impossible for the gunner to see out. Rain had a hazard of its own. On 4 February, 86 aircraft climbed through heavy rain into the cold upper atmosphere where the rainwater collected then froze the bomb doors shut and locked the turrets in one position; almost half the crews aborted the mission. The intensely cold and rarefied upper atmosphere was als