ing a 250kg bomb with a one-second delay fuse, to bounce off the ground into the tank or to hit it directly. Where Soviet columns were moving forward unopposed, the priority targets were the fuel supply vehicles, which could easily be knocked out by strafing; without them the tanks would have to halt anyway. Allied Fighter-bomber Operations for the Normandy Invasion In the Allied air operations pre- and post D-Day in support  1944 GROUND-ATTACK OPERATIONS 230 of the invasion, 8th AF fighters not needed in escorting the day bombers were assigned to clearing the skies and airfields of German aircraft in Northern France. This gave the British 2TAF and US 9th AF fighter-bombers almost unrestricted freedom for ground-attack operations. Prime targets were coastal radars, trains, tanks, troop units, military vehicles, and (once the landings had begun) bridges around the beachhead, to isolate it. Rocket-firing Typhoons were used for systematic attacks on the radars. Intended for the small Würzburg sets, the 'Abdullah' radar homer fitted to a Typhoon proved ineffective; the radar operators could switch frequency or even switch off altogether when aircraft were coming directly towards them. For the invasion itself Bostons laid smokescreens over the beaches ahead of the approaching landing-craft. By D-Day plus 1, the Allies were constructing forward airfields (Emergency Landing Strips, Refuelling and Rearming Strips, then operational Advanced Landing Grounds) in the beachhead. Flying from these, the Typhoons and P-47s continued their destruction. The Germans tried giving false voice instructions to direct the aircraft astray, one such try being foiled by a suspicious US flight leader demanding that the controller sing the words of the 'Mairzie Doats' popular song of the period. But German light flak took a steady toll of the Allied fighter-bombers. The losses were greater for low-level than for dive-bombing, but without dive-brakes, fighters built up too much speed in a dive f