nd return leg, and then moving off to join the main formation. 8th and 9th AF Pathfinder Techniques; 'Synchronous Bombing The new 8th AF formation was first used with radar on 11 January, the 482nd (Pathfinder) Group's new H2X- equipped B-24s leading 650 US bombers in attacks on aircraft factories around Brunswick. For conditions of partial cloud cover, c.March the 482nd introduced 'H2X Synchronous Bombing', with both the radar operator and the bombardier following the bombing run to the target. The bombardier made the drop if the target proved to be visible, 237 otherwise the radar operator ordered bomb release. By April, 8th AF B-24s were using the British Gee-H system for blind marking through overcast, dropping marker flares in attacks, e.g. on V-weapon sites. US 9th AF medium bomber formations were now led by bomb-leader aircraft (e.g. A-20J and K) having frameless transparent noses for improved bombardier's view. In February, the 9th AF formed the 1st Pathfinder Squadron (Provisional) to provide lead aircraft for medium bombers for daylight overcast conditions. On the first mission, on 21 February, a pathfinder B-26 used Gee for 17 others to bomb Coxyde Furnes airfield. Later, the 9th AF pathfinders also used Oboe and H2X. In the attacks on transport targets in France in May, the need for accuracy to minimize civilian casualties led to 9th AF visual bombing in compact flights of six aircraft on converging lines of attack. US Bombing on the Leader; Bomb Release by Radio; Use of Escort Fighters 8th AF use of 'bombing on the leader' had its disadvantages. If the leader released early by accident (as on 28 January 1944), by short circuit (6 February), or as a result of flak damage (25 February), all or part of the formation would also release, short of the target. If on the other hand a rack malfunction prevented release (as on 5 February and 2 March), the rest of the formation also failed to bomb. But the quest for a more compact bomb pattern continued. Around Ma