tudinal keel and catwalk allowed only relatively small bombs stowed either side. The He177 was the most innovative heavy bomber of the time. Features included: a structure stressed for dive- bombing, if necessary; full-span Fowler flaps, combined with ailerons; a quadruple main u/c; and doubled DB605 engines reducing drag, roll inertia, and engine-out yawing moment, while giving the aircraft the appearance of being twin-engined. But the He177 was to become the most trouble-plagued bomber of the war. As a stopgap, bomber conversions of the Focke-Wulf Fw200 Condor entered service, but these could carry just four 250kg bombs under the wings; they took part in the night blitz on Britain, but were mostly used for anti-shipping duties. With the Stirling and Halifax coming into service, each with eight guns in three power-turrets, the RAF believed it now had the best armed heavy bombers; the Pe-8 had two 20mm cannon and two machine guns, but all were manual. High-speed Unarmed Bombers: De Havilland Mosquito The DH98 Mosquito unarmed light bomber was effectively in a class of its own, becoming the fastest military aircraft in service anywhere. For much of the war, no other bomber could match its performance, and no service fighter could be relied upon to catch it and shoot it down. Powered by two RR Merlin liquid-cooled engines, the Mosquito was exceptionally clean. Its high performance, and the low radar signature given by its wooden structure (panels of balsa wood sandwiched between layers of birch), were to enable the Mosquito to roam virtually at will over German- occupied territory even in daylight, despite its lack of armament. Elsewhere, there was little interest in such a bomber. The Japanese acquired a manufacturing licence for the German He119, and in May 1940, two prototypes to evaluate, but production plans did not materialize. High-altitude Bombers The year 1940 saw serious efforts to achieve stratospheric bombers. In Germany, the Junkers Ju86P-1 unarmed pressu