n by providing a 200-mile long 'Mandrel screen'. The screen was first used, along with 'Tinsel', during a raid on Mannheim on 3 December. Other Mandrel sets were fitted to heavy bombers and used on the raids themselves, to counter the inland Freya sets supporting the Kammhuber night-fighter system. 'Ground Mandrel', in giant constructions employing six transmitters at each of four sites in south-east England, also became operational in December. Elsewhere in 1942, a ground jammer to neutralize the British 'CO' early warning radar on Malta was developed in Italy. 'Gaston' and its successor 'Tinsel' provided airborne jamming of enemy defence R/T, disrupting voice commu- nications between ground control stations and night-fighter crews. Fitted to RAF bombers, Tinsel employed a microphone mounted in an engine nacelle and linked to a radio transmitter. A German-speaking crewman used the aircraft's normal radio receiver to search for fighter control R/T, then tuned the transmitter to broadcast the engine noise on the same frequency. Ground-attack Developments Aircraft: Il-2 and Light Shturmovik; AVIA LM.02 Dive-bombing Glider The key feature of the two-seat Ilyushin Il-2 Shturmovik was its armour plate, typically 7mm thick and now increased to 950kg, forming a fuselage keel, and protection for the 141 cockpit floor, bulkheads, fuel tanks, coolant and oil radiators, and the underside of the engine. This, plus the bullet-proof windscreen gave the Il-2 exceptional protection against light AA fire, and coupled with its defensive gun, greatly reduced losses to fighters. By late 1942, Il-2s were being fitted with heavier (37mm) cannon; ordnance included small bombs in the wing bays or under the wings, and RS-82 and RS-132 rocket projectiles. Built in large numbers, the Il-2 was to prove highly successful in its role. Meanwhile, the success of the Po-2 harassment bomber led the Soviets to introduce the U-2VOM-1 or LSh (Legkii Shturmovik) close support version for use where low s