g the Norden 191 bombsight on the AP (Aiming Point), the required course corrections were signalled on the pilot's display. When the target was obscured by partial cloud, 'grid bombing' and a stopwatch were used, the lead bombardier choosing on his map grid a prior visible AP with an estimated time delay for releasing the bombs. The Automatic Flight Control Equipment (AFCE) introduced in March linked the Norden sight to the autopilot, so enabling the bombardier to take over flying the aircraft during the bomb run, to give a more accurate track over the target. With overcast conditions common over Germany, British blind-bombing aids were adapted by the 8th AF for daylight use. Oboe received limited use, on B-17s; H2S was soon replaced by H2X. The 482nd (Pathfinder) Group, formed to provide the H2X formation leadships ('Mickey ships'), operated for the first time on 27 September, in a 305 aircraft raid on Emden. But success with H2X was limited by reliability problems. Other aircraft bombed when the leadship was seen to drop its load, which could include target marking incendiaries. Because of the time delay for other crews to react and release their own bombs, the lead bombardier normally aimed just short of the true AP. Efforts to enhance the visibility of the leadship's bomb drop to other crews included painting the bombs in bright colours (yellow or red and white) and attaching cloth streamers or smoke flares to them. Finally, the M87 100lb Smoke Streamer was introduced to provide the visual signal, the coloured smoke trail beginning one second after release. The M84 100lb Target Identification Bomb, an air-burst red smoke skymarker, was also introduced for marking the bomb release line in overcast conditions. Daylight Bombing Operations The Allied 'Combined Bomber Offensive' At Casablanca in January 1943, Roosevelt and Churchill authorized a co-ordinated US/British 'Combined Bomber Offensive' (CBO). Its main objective, later restated in the  1943 192 DAYLIGHT BOM