s in the Channel and bombing road and rail targets deep in France. That day, much of the small Dutch and Belgian air forces were destroyed. Over the next several weeks, the Germans - well trained, well equipped and well co-ordinated - moved westwards at a speed which the Allies found impossible to counter. The ground offensive was aided by a ubiquitous fighter cover which enabled Luftwaffe recon- naissance aircraft to patrol freely, while overcoming any Allied reconnaissance missions. As the panzers sped forward, they were closely followed by signals unit vehicles which laid cables at up to 20mph to provide communication with newly captured airfields. Luftwaffe task forces made each airfield operational within hours, Ju52/3m transports then flying in bombs, ammunition, spares, groundcrews and fuel, enabling Luftwaffe units to leapfrog forward from base to base. Ju52/3m signals aircraft also flew into the forward airfields, to serve as advanced radio and D/F stations. This ground support kept the Ju87 Stuka dive-bombers close to the rapidly moving front, allowing six or seven sorties each per day. Military obstacles met by the ground forces were swiftly dealt with by Luftwaffe liaison officers calling down close support air strikes by the Ju87s when required. These proved very effective, the Allied troops mostly putting up so little resistance to dive-bombing attacks that the Germans themselves were surprised. [Horne, 1969:290-2] The enhanced psychological effect of sirens now fitted to the u/c legs of the Stukas and operated during the dive, contributed to this success. On 19 May, the vulnerability of tanks to skilled air strikes was confirmed, a French armoured counter-attack led by De Gaulle against Guderian's panzers being largely destroyed by Stukas.  76 1939-40 GROUND-ATTACK DEVELOPMENTS Allied Bombing Attempts in Response to the German Blitzkrieg The Allied air attempts to counter the German May offensive quickly showed how unfit the aircraft, techniques and t