he end of the war. FIDO installations were made at 15 airfields in Britain, one in France and one (by US Navy CBs) on Amchitka Island in the Aleutians. + Ground-attack Developments The Decline of the Dive-bomber; New Ground-attack Aircraft By 1944, the steep-diving dedicated land-based dive-bomber was being replaced by fighter-bombers which were more versatile but able to use only a less accurate, intermediate dive - as did the Soviet Pe-2 still well used on the Eastern Front. Even in Burma where air opposition had greatly declined, the RAF replaced its Vengeances with Spitfires and so lost its precision 85-90 degree dive capability against point targets. The USAAF, too, phased out its A-36s in favour of P-51Bs. But the USMC and RNZAF were operating Douglas SBDs with success, and in March the USMC began using the Chance Vought F4U Corsair, dive-bombing at angles of 70 to 80 degrees. But there was continuing interest in other forms of ground- attack aircraft versions and conversions, some with formidable weapons. In Japan, the Ki-102b ground-attack version of the Kawasaki Ki-102 twin-engined fighter had a 57mm Ho-401 cannon and two 20mm cannon. In the USSR, the Ilyushin Il-10 Shturmovik superseded the Il-8, both being higher-powered derivatives of the Il-2; the Yak-9K was given a 45mm cannon; and a Tu-2 bomber was tested with a 75mm cannon for use against rail targets. German ground-attack aircraft in service included the Ju88P-4 and Ju288, each with a 50mm BK 5 cannon; the Henschel Not rockets, but smoke-streamer bombs: apparently seldom used, smoke streamers released by 8th AF lead aircraft provided a clear visual signal to other crews to release their bombs; here, they all have. All the bombs are arcing down, but only those with smoke trails can show the trajectory. The aircraft are B-17G Fortress bombers, identifiable by their 'chin' turrets. Mosquito low-level precision raid: 2TAF Mosquito bombers attacking the Gestapo HQ housed in two adjacent four-storey build