d Nicholson's 1932 novel Public Faces warned: ' ... the experts had begun to whisper the words "atomic bomb", and that ... a single bomb could by the discharge of its electronic energy destroy New York'. In 1934, the physicist Leo Szilard persuaded the British Admiralty to take out a secret patent on a nuclear chain reaction that would make an atomic explosion possible. But few people thought an A-bomb practical until, in January 1939, Prof. Otto Frisch and Dr Lise Meitner made the first public announcement of a laboratory demonstration of the fission of uranium 235U atoms by bombarding uranium with neutrons. It was Miss Meitner who first appreciated that fission was taking place, the 235U atoms being split into two smaller atoms with release of energy and more neutrons. Szilard (now in the USA), repeating the experiment in March 1939, saw that 'the World was heading for sorrow' [Kurzman, 1945:21]; a large enough mass (critical mass) of 235U could give a chain reaction, in which each neutron generated would cause further fission and more neutrons, so leading to an atomic explosion. Others noticed also. In France, a patent for a uranium bomb was filed. In the USSR, nuclear research received increased priority, under a committee set up to investigate the feasibility of an A-bomb. In Germany, physicists P. Harteck and W. Groth wrote to the German War Office on the possible use of nuclear energy as a military explosive, and the government quickly stopped the export of uranium ore from newly-occupied Czechoslovakia. Prompted by Szilard, in August 1939 the world's most respected scientist, Albert Einstein at Princeton, wrote to the US President F. D. Roosevelt urging intensive research towards developing a nuclear bomb before Nazi Germany did so.  Calor PRE-WORLD WAR TWO 52 Navigation, Blind-bombing Systems and Radar Radio Systems for Navigation; Blind Landing; IFF In the 1930s, aircraft crews still relied mostly on visual navigation plus dead reckoning and/or astronaviga