ns and devices for ground-attack operations. A Ju87C was tested with an 88mm recoilless gun mounted under the fuselage to fire through the propeller disc, but severe damage was caused when the rear-firing rocket charge (to absorb the recoil) failed to fire with the gun. The Gero flame-thrower was tested on the Henschel Hs129B. The Werfer-Granate 28/32 280mm mortar was tested - with little success - as an anti-tank weapon for the Fw190F-8 and Hs129B, with one or two carried under each wing. The SG116 Zellendusche anti-bomber weapon was flight tested (unsuccessfully) on an Fw190F-8 in the rôle of an anti-tank weapon, with the MK103 barrels firing down- wards. Finally, the SG113A Förstersonde automatic mortar, using 77mm recoilless guns, was tested as a pair of barrels on each wing of the Fw190F-8, and as a group of six in the fuselage of the Hs129B. The guns fired downwards when triggered by a nose-mounted 'magnetic anomaly detector' (MAD) sensing the magnetic field changes created by a tank hidden in woodland or under camouflage below. The device apparently destroyed a T-34 tank in one test, but reliability was poor. The British also tested an airborne MAD (the US ASQ-1 intended for locating submarines) for detecting tanks; and tried the H2D night tactical adaptation of H2S, intended to detect movement on the ground below, but it showed poor ability to discriminate between moving and stationary objects. Allied Use of Airpower for Invasion Support; Operations in Italy In 1944, the Allies made further amphibious landings in Axis-held territory. In Europe, 11,000 land-based aircraft supported the huge Normandy invasion. Carrier aircraft supplemented land-based aircraft in covering the Anzio and south of France landings. In the Pacific, the rapidly expanding USN carrier force provided the bulk of the air support for the landings there (Marshall Islands, New Guinea, Marianas, Palau and Caroline Islands, and the Philippines - Leyte, Mindoro). Land-based bombers aided in th