n country. But Hitler reacted by ordering an intensive bombing campaign against British cities. Now, for the first time in the war, the aim was widespread systematic destruction by bombing, to crush civilian morale. London was to receive day and night raids, cities too far away for fighter escort would receive only night raids. 97 The First Night Bombing Campaign: the German 'Blitz' on Britain Small-scale night raids on Britain had served to train German crews, but also accustomed the British to air attacks and helped to get their civil and AA defence system operating smoothly, although the AA capability remained small. Now, the first major night bombing campaign of the war began on 28 August, when Liverpool was attacked by around 160 bombers on four successive nights. Meanwhile, RAF raids against Berlin followed on 28, 30 and 31 August, and 1, 4 and 6 September. But with much shorter ranges to travel, and many more aircraft, the German bombing capability against Britain greatly exceeded the British bombing capability against Germany; and those raids on Berlin provoked the onslaught on London. On the afternoon of 7 September, 300 bombers carried out the first heavy raid on London, the fires serving to guide a further 250 bombers that night. The night raid brought, in the Surrey Docks area, the first man-made 'firestorm' - albeit on a smaller scale than those later wrought on Germany. The change of policy reduced Luftwaffe losses, more aircraft being lost at night from navigation errors and accidents than from British defence action, but it relieved the pressure on the RAF's airfields. By 13 November, London had been bombed on 67 consecutive nights except one, by an average of 160 aircraft. It seems that some Spanish Air Force personnel took part in the night bombing. The German raids resulted in widespread damage, casualties, lost sleep, and much disruption, with unexploded bombs (UXBs, malfunc- tioning or delay fu fused) adding considerably to the difficulties of c