ent in crashed KG26 He111s enabled the British to devise 'Benjamin', a simpler jammer. Meanwhile, TRE adapted a CHL early warning radar for ranging in blind bombing, used with an IFF set carried by the bomber as a pulse repeater. In April, this ranging system was first used in further attacks on the German radio beam station near Cherbourg. The Wellington bomber homed along the German beam towards its source, maintaining 109 course and releasing its bombs on radio command from the CHL station. Such attempts remained unsuccessful. For providing a bearing to more general targets, the first approach was TRE's 'Howler Chaser', giving an audio signal which increased in pitch as the bomber deviated either side, as judged by the split beam of the CHL radar aligned with the target. A second approach was the 'Bailie beam', the aircraft flying along a composite (dot-dash) Knickebein-type radio beam devised by G.Bailie at RAE. In October, under 'Operation Trinity', the CHL ranging system and the Bailie beam were used in night raids by Stirling bombers on the battleships Scharnhorst and Gneisenau in Brest harbour. Bomber Support Identification Developments: IFF/FuG25/Rebecca; Lights, Colours of the Day In 1941, the British introduced a 'universal' IFF Mk.III using a dedicated transmitter and receiver at GCI (Ground Control of Interception) stations. It was later adopted as standard for all the Allies, including the USSR. A 'distress' setting was incorporated. The first airborne IFF interroga- tion device, the British 'Rebecca' was fitted to RAF night fighters in 1941, for identifying returning friendly bombers. An alternative approach, dim recognition lights in the bombers' wing tips and shielded so as to be visible only from close astern, was used for a while but judged dangerous. The first IFF-type set on the Axis side, the FuG25a Erstling entered Luftwaffe service in August 1941, used with Würzburg ground radars. FuG25 remained the German standard, the replacement FuG226 Neu