e war, a precision low-level night attack on a complex of five dams providing hydroelectric power to Germany's Ruhr industrial area. To breach a massive concrete dam (the Möhne was 100ft thick at its base) a large weight of explosive needed to be placed right against the upstream side of the dam wall prior to detonation, a requirement far beyond the capability of conventional bombing at the time. The Barnes Wallis 'Upkeep' spinning/bouncing bomb was purpose-designed for the task. Modified Lancasters, designated 'Type 464 Provisioning Lancaster', were to carry one bomb each with its axis across  1943 204 NIGHT BOMBING TECHNIQUES AND OPERATIONS 205 the underside of the fuselage. It was to be spun up to 500 rpm, and then dropped at a precise height, speed and distance, to skip its way over the water surface, slowing down to hit up against the dam wall and sink down to explode. Mid May was chosen for the raid, when the dams would be fullest (for maximum flood damage) and there would be moonlight for visibility. For the raid, No.617 Sqdn was specially formed with élite crews, under Wing Cmdr G.Gibson. Attacks were practised US-devised over similar reservoirs in Britain, with simulated moonlight flying carried out in daylight, using a combination of amber goggles and blue perspex over the cockpit glazed areas. Bomb release at the right distance and 60ft height was achieved with a wooden sighting frame for the dam end towers, and two Aldis lamps mounted fore and aft under the fuselage, angled to give light spots on the water touching in a lateral figure of eight at a point 60ft below. Fighter Command type VHF R/T sets were installed in each aircraft for voice communications, allowing Gibson to act as 'Master Bomber', directing the raid. This was the first use of the Master Bomber technique. The raid was carried out by 19 Lancasters; only 11 returned. Of the 5 dams, only the Möhne and Eder were successfully breached. The Upkeep was quite unsuitable for the shallow-sloped So