es in South-east Asia By 1944, a huge Allied air build-up (on over 200 new airfields) in East India, with the US 7th AF and RAF units integrated to form Eastern Air Command (EAC), was being used in the drive against the Japanese in Burma. Bombing operations included night 'Rhubarbs' against vehicles, and especially a stepped-up offensive against the railway system. Mitchell bombers dropped spike bombs at intervals along the tracks, but the railway's many bridges were judged the most vulnerable points and most difficult to repair. Fighter-bombers attacked the nearer ones, B-25s, B-24s and RAF Liberators took those at longer range, with some Wellington missions at night. Despite trip-wires and mines exploded by remote control, many attacks were made at low level, using delay-fused bombs. Wooden trestle-type bridges were easiest to repair and needed repeat attacks when PR sorties showed them nearing completion. Additional attacks were also necessary when the Japanese built by-pass bridges alongside existing ones. At the end of December, Azon guided bombs dropped by B-24s destroyed 24 bridges in one day. Overall, 277 bridges including the 1,650ft Sittang bridge were cut during the 1944 offensive, severely hampering Japanese supply operations. Elsewhere, the US 14th AF mounted a similar offensive against rail targets including bridges, in Indo-China and later in Northern China. US B-29 Operations in the CBI/ Pacific Theatre While US bombing operations continued across much of the Pacific theatre, in April 1944 B-29s of the new 20th AF arrived in China, putting Japan itself within range of heavy bombers. But the four bases near Chengtu had to be supplied by air, over the 'Hump' of the Himalayas from India, hence the B-29 itself was diverted to supply  1944 246 NIGHT BOMBING operations. Two B-29s made their first Hump cargo missions on 24 April, and in May the first B-29 tanker conversions were made, to fly fuel over the Hump. The first B-29 bombing mission, 100 aircraft a