t range against Soviet supply centres and troops rather than against strategic targets, bombing from 6,000m. Reportedly, Soviet fighter pilots treated the heavy defensive armament of the He177 with respect and few of the bombers were lost. [Smith and Kay, 1972:287] After long negotiations and preparations (including the strengthening of Soviet runways with steel planking, under US supervision), the first US 'Operation Frantic Joe' shuttle bombing to the USSR took place on 2 June. Some 130 B-17s with 70 P-51 escorts from Foggia raided rail targets in Hungary and flew on to land at Poltava, Mirgorod and Piratyin, in the Ukraine. On 21 June, B-17s and P-51s flew the 8th AF's first shuttle bombing from Britain to the Ukraine. On the return flights, the US bombers used Soviet 250kg bombs and 0.5-inch ammunition. Later, Yak-9DD long-range fighters were flown from the Ukraine to Bari and used to escort US bombers on shuttle missions. But US requests to use Soviet bases in Siberia for bombing Japan were refused. The British Restart Daylight Heavy Bombing; French Daylight Bombing Encouraged by diminishing German day fighter activity, the RAF restarted large daylight raids on 14 June, 234 aircraft attacking the docks at Le Havre. On 5 September, the RAF began further such raids on German-held French ports (Le Havre, Boulogne, Calais), now cut off by Allied forces. By October, Bomber Command was carrying out many daylight raids, including into Germany, with relatively low losses. To hamper German ground forces, on 3 October, 247 RAF 245 bombers breached the perimeter dyke of Walcheren in Holland, flooding the 'island'. In November, the new Forces Aériennes Françaises de l'Atlantique began raids on the Biscay ports using captured Ju88 bombers. Allied Interdiction Against Rail Bridges in South-east Asia By 1944, a huge Allied air build-up (on over 200 new airfields) in East India, with the US 7th AF and RAF units integrated to form Eastern Air Command (EAC), was being used in th