m 7,000ft and then loitered to obtain some 30 good quality radar photos. Beginning on the night of 5 May, radarscope missions were flown by single 'Eagle' B-29B aircraft using the new AN/APQ-7 'Eagle' high-resolution radar. Countermeasures Developments; Chaff Dispensers; US and British chaff dispensers, to overcome the effort and discomfort of manually ejecting bundles of chaff down an aircraft's flare chute in sub-zero temperatures, were introduced early in 1945. The US A-1 automatic dispenser became a standard item on B-17 and B-24 bombers delivered to the ETO. The British 14ft 6in-long Mk.I semi-automatic Window Dispenser, mounted in the bomb bay of Halifax RCM aircraft, was loaded manually with Window bundles in flight and it ejected them at a pre-set rate. The smaller automatic Mk.III fitted into the Mosquito's 100-gallon drop tank. 'Rope' and 'Angels' The principal new Allied airborne jammers of 1945 were both derivatives: 'Airborne Grocer II' for use against Würzburg radars, and 'Meerschaum', to counter FuG220 AI radar; neither was operational by the end of the war. In the Pacific theatre, the Japanese had been installing more and more EW and gun control radars on the islands under their occupation. This caused a steadily increasing US counter- measures response. Intelligence missions were flown by Navy PB4Y-2s and a top-secret 'Black Cat' PBY unit, plus USAAF B-24 and B-29s carrying RCM observers and search equipment. The Japanese EW radars operated at exception- ally low frequency, requiring purpose-designed electronic jammers, and chaff strips which were much longer, and therefore bulkier and heavier to carry. Referred to as 'rope' because of their length, the foil strips used were coiled with one end attached to a small square cardboard 'parachute', the coil unwinding as it fell away. The Japanese response 265 was to develop radar sets operating on even longer wavelengths. The principal new offensive use of RCM came with four B-29 RCM conversions, known a