expected to be adequate for escort duty if needed. For night operations, three secret blind bombing radio aids were well advanced. In Britain, although the RAF had definite aims towards strategic bombing, especially heavy attacks to undermine  PRE-WORLD WAR TWO 30 BOMBER TYPES the enemy's morale, the necessary plans had not been thought through. It was hoped to use daylight bombing; but the twin-engined bombers in service and the heavy bombers under development had unsupercharged engines, rifle- calibre guns (albeit with powered turrets) and no armour. Even so, escort fighters were thought unnecessary, and the two apparently likeliest long-range ones - the Whirlwind and Beaufighter - were not really recognized as such, and were not yet available. Further, if daylight bombing were to prove to give unacceptable losses, Britain was making no effort to develop blind bombing aids to facilitate night operations as the alternative. Airfields and Catapults One problem with strategic bombing for the British with their inclement weather was that large bombers needed hard runways for all-weather operation. As elsewhere, British airfields of the 1930s were grass fields without runways. Night operations were carried out with improvised flare paths marked out by manually-positioned and -lit gooseneck paraffin flares. The Air Ministry believed hard runways to be vulnerable to enemy air attack, while a pair of catapults per aerodrome was thought to be cheaper than a concrete or tarmac runway. In 1936, development work was authorized at RAE on a hydro-pneumatic 'Frictionless Take-off' catapult for getting heavily laden bombers airborne. The Avro Manchester bomber was stressed for catapult take-off. and projected versions of the Stirling and Halifax were considered for catapult use. [Lewis, 1980:292] Work on the catapult continued into the war but the Air Ministry had by then sanctioned hard runways. The German Luftwaffe had far more airfields than the RAF, and paved runway construct