ind-bomb the target with incendiaries, to mark it visually for the main bomber force following. To minimize diffusion of bombing and the effect of decoy fires, some of KGr100's aircraft followed at intervals in the main force to re-mark the centre of the target area. This technique was first used for the Coventry raid on 14 November. The Luftwaffe set up two further fire-lighting groups in November: III/KG26 using Y-Verfahren; and II/KG55 having no radio aids, relying instead on experienced crews using conventional navigation. In November, III/KG26 and II/KG55 began using later model He111 bombers having wing racks able to carry 500kg bombs. It became Luftwaffe practice to drop these larger bombs early in a raid, to fracture gas and water mains and thereby promote fires and hamper firefighting. The idea was subsequently copied by the British. On typical night raids during the early period of the Blitz, the Luftwaffe spaced its bombers at around 12-mile intervals in long, often indirectly routed Krocodil streams, with up to seven miles spread either side of the track, and considerable altitude dispersion. A large raid continued right through the long hours of the winter night. He111s carrying 32 BSK36 incendiary containers could drop them at 50m intervals, giving a 1.5km-long path of fire. For maximum harassment on smaller raids, crews were at times instructed to loiter over the target, dropping say one bomb every five minutes; there was little risk from fighters or from the limited, and rather inaccurate, flak. The Coventry and Mannheim Raids Claims [Winterbottom, 1974:82] that the British had prior warning of the German Mondscheinserenade/ Korn raid, but chose not to act on it in order to preserve the secrecy of  Can 100 1939-40 Ultra, have been disputed [R.V. Jones, 1978:200]. The raid, on Coventry on the night of 14 November 1940, was the war's most destructive yet, with 469 bombers in three streams dropping over 500 tons of bombs. Factories were the main targets