r the Lincoln. In Germany, the Mistel composite aircraft/missile concept was adapted to provide the Fuhrungsmaschine, a much-stretched Ju88H-4 manned long-range pathfinder aircraft carrying pick-a-back 257  1945 258 WEAPON DEVELOPMENTS fashion its own Fw190A-8 manned escort fighter, to be started up and launched when attack was imminent. In Japan, the Yokosuka R2Y2 projected attack bomber had a Ne-330 turbojet under each wing, and carried a ventral 800kg bomb; an aerodynamic prototype, the R2Y1 with coupled liquid-cooled engines in the fuselage driving a nose propeller made its only flight on 8 May 1945. In Germany, Ar234 prototypes with experimental laminar flow and crescent plan- form wings were still under construction on VE-Day. Mean- while, the cancelled Ju287 six-turbojet heavy bomber was restarted in January 1945; the prototype, in final assembly, was captured by Soviet forces and eventually flew in the USSR. In June 1945, the USAAF ordered prototypes of the Northrop YB-49 flying wing bomber, an eight-turbojet derivative of the XB-35. In Britain, the future twin-jet English Electric Canberra reached the drawing-boards. Turbojet Bombers British and US Radar-laid Gun Turrets Since 1943, the USA and Britain had been developing radar-laid tail gun systems for bombers, to achieve automatic, accurate aiming and firing at an enemy fighter approaching from the rear, irrespective of visibility. Each system incorporated: a tail centimetric radar with lock-on/tracking facility; range, elevation and bearing a signalling to the power-operated turret; and gyro-stabilized gun following to give the correct 'lead'. The quadruple 0.303-inch gun British AGLT (Air Gun Layer Turret), code-named 'Village Inn', was developed at TRE. Its radar system incorporated automatic IFF interrogation, but a nose-mounted IR identification system ('Liquid Lunch') was also fitted to bombers to avoid blind-fire AGLT attacks from other bombers. Plagued by technical problems, the AGLT saw limited s