A spherical-shaped subcritical mass of plutonium was sur- rounded by 64 explosive charges which were to be fired evenly and simultaneously, the resulting millions of atmospheres pressure causing the plutonium to compress suddenly to a dense supercritical form able to sustain the rapid chain reaction. Because of its spherical internal design, the plutonium bomb became a bulbous-looking device, 128 inches long by 60 inches diameter, and weighing 10,000lb. It was nicknamed 'Fat Man', apparently after Churchill. The 'Trinity' A-bomb Test On 16 July 1945, under code-name 'Trinity', the first ever nuclear explosion took place in a remote area of semi-desert, one-time Apache territory, at Alamogordo, New Mexico. The plutonium bomb, minus its aerodynamic case, was mounted atop a steel framework test tower. At detonation, awed observers noted: the intensity of the flash ('a light not of this World, a light of many suns ... '); the blast wave; then the fireball a mile in diameter rising and changing to an immense mushroom-shaped cloud, followed by a hurricane wind and thunderous roar. The test tower vanished except for stumps, while the sand around ground-zero was transformed momentarily to a white-hot saucer 500 yards in diameter, before cooling to glazed green lumps. The flash was seen in New York. The explosion, heard across several states, was ascribed to 'an ammunition dump blowing up'. Navigation, Blind Bombing and Countermeasures Navigation/Bombing System Developments; 'Radarscope' Missions Two more Gee-H derivatives entered service early in 1945. The 'Loran-H' or 'SHORAN' (SHort RAnge Navigation) system with AN/CPN-2 ground and AN/APN-3 airborne equipment, featured on-board computers linked to the autopilot using the received 'H' signals to control the flight path of the aircraft and automatically release the bombs. 'Rebecca-H', used by 2TAF Mosquitos, was based on the British Rebecca/Eureka radio homing system, using an onboard Rebecca set to determine the aircraft's