lling on lines which could be extrapolated back to a point at Cherbourg, evidently the transmitter. This led to the first British attempts at blind bombing, using the German radio beams as a means of attacking the transmitters themselves. This was done by flying back along the beam, timing the passage through the 'cone of silence' above the transmitter. and then making a further pass to bomb the mid point of the cone. After practising using an SBA transmitter, on 12 November 1940 WIDU Wellington bombers, equipped with suitable receivers, made the first such attack. The X-Verfahren transmitter at Cherbourg was disabled for two days [Saward, 1984:202], but subsequent attacks failed, the target being too small to hit consistently by this means. Bomber Support Escort Fighters: Drop Tanks; The Zero; Towing; Convoy Escorts Fighter drop tanks could have aided the Germans in the Battle of Britain, by allowing daylight sweeps and escorted bombing well beyond the south-east corner of England. The Bf109E-7, equipped with the connectors, pipes, pumps and shackles to use them appeared in August. But the 250 litre moulded plywood/fabric tanks leaked badly, and were not used operationally; improved drop tanks did not appear until 1941. Far from the Battle of Britain, the IJN's new A6M Zero-Sen fighter featured lightweight construction. exceptional internal tankage, and a ventral jettisonable tank. In daylight raids, unescorted Mitsubishi G3M bombers had proved vulnerable to Chinese Air Force fighters. Now. on 19 August 1940, A6M2 fighters escorted G3Ms over an unprecedented 1,000 nautical miles round trip from Hangchow to near Chunking. But the performance of the Zero remained unknown to Western Intelligence. An alternative, achieving extended range escort with the bomber towing its own escort fighter, was tried by the 71 Messerschmitt company in mid-1940, with a Bf110C towing a Bf109E via a towline attaching to the fighter's airscrew spinner. The fighter would be powered for take