tion was maintained when under AA fire or fighter attack; for the latter, the formation normally tightened up, the crews only breaking away if subjected to unusual attack manoeuvres. The Japanese expansion in 1942 involved widespread bombing, including of largely undefended towns, with heavy raids on: Rangoon, Mandalay and other towns during the invasion of Burma; Colombo and Trincomalee in Ceylon: and Rabaul, Bougainville and Port Moresby. Many raids on urban areas used fragmentation bombs; given the lightly built houses and no shelters there were heavy casualties. The biggest Japanese air attack since Pearl Harbor was a mainly carrier-based strike on the shipping, port and airfield at a weakly-defended Darwin, on 19 February. The raid included low-level attacks as well as pattern bombing by formations of B5N2s, and by two waves of land-based G4Ms from the Celebes. In later weeks, further land-based raids followed. But radar and fighter protection improved; on 25 April, 24 bombers were met by P-40 Warhawks and 11 were shot down. On 21 March, raids by 230 Japanese aircraft on Magwe/Lashio destroyed most of the surviving RAF aircraft in Burma. In December, the Japanese flew small night raids (a total of 23 sorties) against Calcutta; little damage was caused but one-and-a-half million people fled. 151 The Allied Response in the Pacific Theatre By January, the British were moving scarce reinforcements to the Far East. Blenheim and Ventura bombers were flown overland in stages, many being lost en route, others to Japanese raids on the airfields after arrival. Along with Dutch (Martin B-10) and RAAF (Hudson) remnants, surviving aircraft were pressed into action piecemeal, with inadequate ground staff and supplies, and no crew acclimatization or training. Small escorted daylight raids were mauled by the Zeros, and navigation by inexperienced crews without radio aids, over mountainous jungle at night, brought further losses to little effect. In the USA, means of striking b