F might have destroyed German aircraft more efficiently by using either Fighter Command (by day) or Bomber Command (by night) to attack them when they were most vulnerable, namely massed on the French airfields in between raids. Aside from raids on the Ruhr, Bomber Command had made repeated 87 attacks on the invasion ports and barges, but few on the airfields further inland. An indication of what the fighters could have done came in 1941 when Sqdn.Ldr H.R.Allen led 66 Sqdn in an unauthorized strafing attack on Lannion airfield in Brittany, the 13 Spitfires destroying 12 Ju88 bombers without loss to themselves. [Allen, 1974:174] The Mediterranean Air War; Vichy France and Greece With Italy in the war, the Mediterranean and North/East Africa became a new theatre of conflict. The British struck first, nine Blenheims attacking the El Adem air base early on the first morning, 11 June, when the defences were unprepared. The Italians responded on 12 June, 12 RA (Regia Aeronautica) aircraft bombing Sollum. The SAAF's entry began with Ju86s bombing an Italian airfield in Ethiopia on 19 June. Italian raids on Malta became an almost daily occurrence, first at high altitude, then with escort, then at night. But mostly the air conflict settled into one of mainly small-scale tactical raids, by forces operating with difficulty, often with obsolescent aircraft and spread over a large theatre; losses were difficult to replace, so conservation became the rule. In Africa, the RA had a 4:1 numerical superiority, and a bomber (the SM79) which could outpace the RAF's Gladiator biplane fighters. Escorted formations of SM79s made daylight raids on British bases, especially Alexandria, and on 16 October a single SM79 with strafing fighters destroyed 10 RAF aircraft at Gedaref. SM81s made a few night raids. But although the RA's supply route was easier, its maintenance and repair organization was inferior to that of the RAF, and Italian raid effectiveness reduced as aircraft serviceability d