to Attacking Cities On the world scene, bombing of cities (by the Japanese, Germans, Soviets, and British) had been escalating steadily. In the bombing war between Britain and Germany, the British were the first to attack a mainland population centre [Rumpf, 1963:24], 36 Whitley and Hampden bombers attacking the rail centre of Mönchen Gladbach on the night of 10 May 1940, killing just one person - an Englishwoman. Then, on the night of 15 May, the RAF carried out its first major night bombing raid, all 99 serviceable bombers being sent to attack oil and rail targets in the Ruhr. For the RAF. as for the Luftwaffe, the bombing at this period was still largely confined to military/strategic targets. In June, RAF crews received instructions to bring their bombs home if they could not clearly identify the chosen target. Meanwhile. on the night of 7 June, a solitary French Navy Farman 223.4 made the first token Allied bombing raid on Berlin. During the Battle of Britain, Bomber Command's own priority remained the strategic bombing of Germany. For the Germans, heavy raids on 24 August resulted in the airfield at Manston being abandoned by the RAF, while other vital fighter airfields also sustained severe damage. The strikes on the Fighter Command airfields and sector communications were beginning to succeed. But that night, He111s sent to attack oil installations at Thameshaven, dropped bombs in 16 different places in east and south-west London, [Ramsey, 1987:247], reportedly by mistake. That mistake altered the course of the Battle. In retaliation, on the following night 80 RAF Wellington, Hampden and Whitley bombers were despatched to Berlin. Some 21 crews claimed to have bombed the city, although apparently only two Berliners were slightly injured, most bombs falling in open country. But Hitler reacted by ordering an intensive bombing campaign against British cities. Now, for the first time in the war, the aim was widespread systematic destruction by bombing, to crush c