y VB Vertical Bomb (US) VC Victoria Cross (Medal, Br.) VCP Visual Control Post VHF VIT Vozdushny Istrebitel' Tankov (Anti-Tank Aircraft, Sov.) Very High Frequency (Radio) VNOS Vozdushnovo Nablyudeniya Opoveshcheniya i Svyazi VVS WAAF WDAF Wfr.Gr Wireless Investigation WI Wireless Intelligence Development Unit (Br.) WIDU Wireless Telegraphy (Radio communication by Morse code) W/T ZG Zemnogo Obespecheniya Samoletovozhdeniya (Ground Assistance to Air Navigation, Sov.) ZOS (Air Observation, Alert and Communications; service, Sov.) Voyenno-Vozdushnyye Sily (Air Forces, Sov.) Women's Auxiliary Air Force (Br.) Western Desert Air Force (Br.) Werfer-granate (Rocket mortar, Ger.) Zerstorergeschwader (Long range fighter wing, Ger.)  I Pre-World War Two Bombing Concepts and Techniques Bombing: the New Factor In the late 1930s, bombing, and particularly strategic bombing, was seen as the new and frightening factor in war. The bombing by Japan in China, by Italy in Abyssinia, and by the USSR, Italy, and especially Germany in Spain, filled the World with foreboding. Tactical bombing in support of ground troops was now joined by long-range bombing of towns as a weapon and a threat. A future war promised to be a people's war. Fleets of bombers could now rain explosive, incendiary and poison gas bombs down upon populations far from the front. The fear, combined with the rise of the totalitarian powers, brought variously new alliances, isolationism, pacifism, declarations of neutrality; and appeasement - the threat of Hitler's bombers brought him the coup at Munich. But the bombing which had taken place, largely by the totalitarian powers, had been either against ill-equipped adversaries or limited in scale. Some lessons drawn were not wholly valid, others not widely appreciated. In the main, whether against troops and tanks, or factories, towns and cities, bombing remained largely an untried quantity. Mostly its effectiveness was overestimated by the general public (fearing huge casu