ea Sight', the most advanced vector bombsight of the war, was introduced first with the PFF late in 1942, replacing the CSBS; a US T-1 version followed in 1943. In Germany, the Fw190A-4 Jabo introduced a cockpit selector panel, enabling the pilot to set the bomb fuses electrically prior to the attack, with settings for dive or horizontal bombing, and with or without time delay. Supercharging via an additional engine mounted in the fuselage (the HZ-Anlage system) appeared on the Dornier Do217P high-altitude reconnaiss- Bridges were not the easiest of targets: here (facing) RAF Baltimore light bombers are attacking a rail bridge over a river identified as the Bamano. at Antimo, in Italy. The area is peppered with bomb bursts, and craters from previous raids. The adjacent road bridge has two cuts in it.  Above: Fighter-bombers en route: aiding the British 8th Army's advance in Italy in November 1943, cannon- armed SAAF Spitfires over the swollen River Sangro, heading to attack enemy gun positions and other targets; each carries a single 250-1b bomb. These are 'tropicalized Spitfire Vcs, the deep chin housing a Vokes engine air intake filter for a desert/dust environment. Left: The Japanese Army's standard bomber: the 7-man Mitsubishi Ki-21 ('Sally') was rated by the Japanese as a heavy bomber, although its bomb load scarcely exceeded that of the three-man Boston. It was used throughout the Pacific war. This particular one was photographed by the crew of a US 5th AF B-25, moments before they shot it down into the dense Pacific island jungle. ca Right: Daylight precision pattern bombing - the War's classic example: the Focke Wulf plant, at Marienburg, after the raid by US 8th AF B-17s, on 9 October 1943. The photo shows 500-1b bomb craters among the complex of buildings, but few in the area outside. The Germans had not been expecting an attack so far east, hence accuracy was greatly aided by the absence of flak, enabling bombing from an unusually low altitude - 11,000 to