prove highly successful in its role. Meanwhile, the success of the Po-2 harassment bomber led the Soviets to introduce the U-2VOM-1 or LSh (Legkii Shturmovik) close support version for use where low speed and manoeuvrabil- ity conferred advantages, e.g. for attacking trenches or camouflaged positions among trees. The LSh carried four RS-82 rockets, 120kg of bombs and a flexible gun for the observer, and served until the end of the war. The Pegas twin-engined light wooden Shturmovik, purpose-designed under D.L. Tomasevich while in 'Special Prison', was not adopted. In Italy, the unique AVIA LM.02 dive-bombing glider could be air-towed over the front line and released to turn and make a dive-bombing pass, pulling out and using its momentum to make a short glide to friendly territory. Having no engine or fuel tanks, the all-wood LM.02 was cheaper and less vulnerable than a powered dive-bomber. But it was not adopted for service. Rocket Projectiles Most RPs were fin-stabilized, usually with fixed fins and fired from launching rails; launching tubes needed 'flick-out' fins. The shorter spin-stabilized type RPs had no fins, and were also tube-launched, using tangential rocket efflux to give spin-up. By 1942, the potential of the RP as a ground-attack weapon was becoming recognized: the forward speed of an aircraft gave launch stability to a finned RP, which helped accuracy; and since rockets were recoilless, any aircraft could carry a high level of installed fire power by using them. The British adopted short launching rails, but later US work showed fore and aft mounting posts to be sufficient, giving reduced weight and drag. RAF Mk.IIC Hurricanes carried eight 3-inch UP rocket projectiles on rails under the wings, fired in pairs or in salvo.  1942 142 GROUND-ATTACK OPERATIONS Steel plates protected the wings from efflux/blast. Warheads were interchangeable 251b AP or SAP, or 60lb HE. A salvo with HE warheads was ranked with a broadside from a light cruiser. The solid he