et. The short-range fighters took off last, from the airfields closest to the coast, and climbed to join the bombers as they crossed the French coast at the chosen raid altitude. Over the target, the bombers maintained formation if enemy fighters were present, otherwise bombed at leisure, including from low altitude if AA fire was light. Individual bombing was the norm, but pattern bombing by a formation was used at times, via radio direction from the formation commander. German Bomber Tactics: Decoys and Co-ordinated Attacks Heavy losses by the Luftwaffe over Britain on 15 August 1940 led Göring to issue a directive banning German bomber crews from having more than one commissioned officer per crew. Meanwhile, new tactics were being tried against the British defences. During August, the Luftwaffe assigned 7/KG3 as the Lock-Vogel (decoy bird) Staffel. The unit's task was to fly its Do17 bombers, without bombs in order to improve per- formance, in a tight formation over Britain, to entice the RAF's fighters to attack. Bf109 units flew high above the decoy force, ready to pounce. [Townsend, 1970:350] On 18 August, the Luftwaffe attempted co-ordinated high and low level raids on the Fighter Command sector station at Kenley. Escorted high-level bombers (He111, Do17 and Ju88) were intended to draw the AA fire and fighters while nine Do17s. flying near line-abreast to avoid each other's slipstream, sneaked in for a surprise low-level attack. But the high-level bombers were delayed, the Do17s took the undivided defence action and only two survived. Even so, three of Kenley's four hangars were destroyed, along with eleven RAF aircraft. On 24 August, the Luftwaffe began varied patrols and feints over the Channel, the formations conceal- ing the build-up for genuine attacks. German Escort Fighter Tactics: the Failure of the Bf110 Although faster than a Hurricane and having a formidable forward-firing armament, the Messerschmitt Bf110 heavy fighter could not match the manoeuvr