ing strafing and shallow dive-bombing by light bombers. albeit against the poorly-equipped Chinese forces. Interdiction 25 The intermediate bombing category was also the least controversial, although, again, the degree of air force integration with army direction varied markedly, from close co-operation (USSR, Germany) to determined indepen- dence (RAF). Interdiction involved tactical strikes against targets beyond the front line, mostly using twin-engined medium bombers. The French and Soviets planned attacks close to the front, the Germans, British and Japanese expected to use wider ranging attacks. The RAF, at least, had made limited exercises with night bombing at relatively low level. But it was generally assumed that attacks would be made by small groups of bombers, in daylight, using horizontal bombing from low/medium altitude, i.e. high enough to be above any light flak. The risk from fighters was not thought to be great because, compared with strategic bombing, the bombers themselves were mostly smaller and faster, the time spent in enemy airspace was less, and the range was more likely to be within the capacity of single-engine fighters to provide escort. But overall, there was a tendency to overestimate the ability to achieve decisive, accurate bombing of what were mainly relatively small targets. Strategic Bombing Long-range strategic bombing had appeared in World War One with raids on Britain by German Zeppelins and Gotha bombers. In the 1920s, preparation for strategic bombing had been strongly advocated by Maj. W. Mitchell in the USA, by Maj. Gen. Sir Hugh (later Lord) Trenchard in Britain, and to the exclusion of all else, by Gen. G. Douhet in Italy [Murray, 1985:9]. It was argued that strategic air power could by itself win a war, that there was no adequate defence against bombing, and hence that the best form of defence was the threat of retaliation in kind. In the 1930s only the USSR maintained a large fleet of four-engined bombers. But most of th