, began experiencing losses at night to Me262 day fighters attacking visually by 279 searchlight. To provide warning, the RAF flew some Mosquito intruders, having tail warning radar, amongst the bombers on one raid. An unusual feat was achieved on the night of 21 March when 118 LNSF Mosquito sorties were flown from Britain to bomb Berlin. Of the aircraft used, 20 made the round trip once, were serviced, refuelled and bombed up again in record time, and made a second round trip that same night, with a different crew. The Dresden Raid and Aftermath; the First Soviet Night Strategic Raid On the night of 13 February 1945, 786 Lancasters carried out what became one of the most controversial raids of the war, dropping 2,640 tons of bombs on the historic East German city and rail centre of Dresden. Initially, the attack used Wanganui blind bombing, but the 10/10 cloud gradually cleared as the raid progressed, allowing more effective coverage. Dresden had been selected as a priority target by the Allied Chiefs of Staff to cause maximum disruption of German support to the Eastern Front, but it was crowded with refugees fleeing the Soviet advance. The immense destruction included central and residential areas, and all of Dresden's 19 hospitals, while next morning US P-51s strafed refugees and rescue workers alike. The RAF's night raid was followed by US 8th AF daylight attacks on Dresden, on the 14th (316 bombers), 15th (211 bombers), 2 March (406 bombers) and 7 April (572 bombers), the latter aimed at the marshalling yards. The overall death toll is uncertain, perhaps 35,000. The attacks on Germany's cities had reached 'a scale which might have appalled Attila or Ghenghis Khan' [Richards and Saunders, Vol.3, 1975:271] and reports of Dresden's devastation and deaths led in Britain to censorship, misrepresentation, and a political distancing from the RAF's area bombing. US disassociation followed, even though the USAAF area bombing of Japanese cities was now getting under way.