an Escort Fighter Tactics: the Failure of the Bf110 Although faster than a Hurricane and having a formidable forward-firing armament, the Messerschmitt Bf110 heavy fighter could not match the manoeuvrability and acceleration of a single-engine interceptor. Encountering such fighters on sweeps over France in May, Bf110 pilots resorted to forming a 'Lufbery' defensive circle. Introduced against Britain in an escort role, which required attempts at dogfighting to keep enemy fighters away from the bombers, the Bf110 proved a disappointment. On 15 August, 21 Bf110D fighters flew escort for He111 bombers from Stavanger; intercepted by RAF fighters, some Bf110s were shot down, others abandoned the bombers - some forming a Lufbery, others turning for home. After subsequent losses, the Germans attempted an inefficient concept in which the Bf110 escort fighters were themselves escorted by Bf109 single-seat fighters. Clearly the heavy escort fighter was not viable, and the Bf110 was withdrawn from the role, the Luftwaffe relying thereafter on the single-engine fighters only, despite their poor range without drop tanks. Meanwhile, continuing bomber losses brought a Göring directive requiring escort fighters to remain close to the bombers, thereby handing the air fighting initiative to the RAF. Although a high escort was flown, most Bf109s flew at either side, above and below the bombers. Tied in this way, the German fighters lost the speed, height and freedom of action needed to counter the British attacks. Although limited fighter sweeps were implemented ahead of the bombers, the escort fighters were now prevented from chasing and destroying the British fighters, even though this was the Luftwaffe's stated primary objective. German Introduction of Strategic Fighter-bombers Luftwaffe Bf109E and Bf110C Jagdbomber fighter-bombers had already carried out low-level bombing attacks against shipping and against the British CH radar stations. But in September 1940, they were introduce