equent course changes to foil the night fighters, and British jamming of the blind bombing systems, many crews got lost. The raids petered out during September. On 30 December, eight of eleven Fw200s despatched made a token long-range night raid on Casablanca, in the hope of disrupting an Allied conference. Four crash-landed in Spain on the return. In October, the RAF restarted raids on Italian cities. Turin received the heaviest night raids, on 20 November (232 aircraft) and 28 November (228 aircraft). The British 'Thousand Bomber' Raid; the Bomber Stream To encourage support for the bomber offensive, on the night of 30 May 1942 Harris implemented his 'Thousand Plan' (Operation 'Millennium'); Bomber Command despatched over 1,000 bombers against a single target, the city of Cologne. Numbers were supplemented by obsolete aircraft, 163 damaged aircraft repaired in round-the-clock working, and aircraft from reserves, new supplies, training, conversion, target-towing and gunnery units. Given the commitment of reserves, instructors and trainee crews, the Plan was rated as a high risk by some, a confidence trick by others; but it did achieve twice the aircraft and four times the bomb load of any previous raid. Cologne was chosen because it was within Gee range, and because the bends on the Rhine would be easily visible. A total of 1,046 Wellington, Whitley, Hampden, Manchester, Stirling, Halifax and Lancaster bombers took off from 53 airfields in Britain. To saturate the air defences, the 'bomber stream' was implemented for the first time, Gee being used to achieve three concentrated streams with bombing over a 90-minute period. Gee- equipped Wellingtons led, dropping incendiaries to mark the three aiming points. The later main force crews were told to aim for gaps in the fires. Carefully planned timing and bombing directions, chosen to minimize risk of collision and risk of damage from bombs falling from aircraft at higher altitude, were largely abandoned over the target