43. Ground-attack Techniques and Operations British Desert Air Force Close Air Support at El Hamma In North Africa, Woodall's close air support system was fully implemented by AVM H.Broadhurst for DAF operations with the 8th Army. Innovations to aid Montgomery's offensive at El Hamma on 26 March included: lines of yellow smoke to show forward troop positions; a creeping shell barrage giving a visible line of dust and smoke as a 'moving bomb line'; DAF pilots in tanks, acting as FACs (Forward Air Controllers, being used for the first time); and a 'flying FAC' monitoring the battle as a whole. Twenty-two squadrons of fighters and fighter-bombers provided close support. Night bombing was followed by pattern bombing by light/medium bombers. then strikes on gun positions and armour by relays of fighter-bombers while Spitfires flew top cover. The ground forces then advanced behind an artillery barrage creeping forward at 100ft per minute which served as the moving bomb line for the continuing air attacks. The German defences were overwhelmed by the intensity of the assault. Despite this success, RAF opposition to such full close support continued, but the concepts used became features of Allied tactical air warfare. GROUND-ATTACK TECHNIQUES AND OPERATIONS 185 Eastern Front Ground Attack: the Shturmovik; Night Operations VVS techniques with the Il-2 Shturmovik used a low-level approach for strafing and firing RS-82 rockets against infantry or vehicles, or a shallow dive against a specific target requiring accuracy. In group attacks, some crews were assigned to AA suppression, if necessary holding back to observe where the flak was coming from. The offensive at Krymskaya on 26 May, saw the first Soviet use of an air-laid smokescreen to hide the armoured and infantry assault, 19 Il-2s in two groups laying the smoke. On 2 June, Snr Lt. N.P. Dedov introduced an Il-2 attack carousel, in an attack on German positions near Moldavanskaya; the Il-2s flew in columns of six to the ta