upplied (with earth-moving equipment, vehicles, medi- cines, pesticides, etc.) and were able to build many more airfields, the Japanese had few bases, had to rely on manual labour (for hiding aircraft in the jungle, filling in bomb craters etc.), and suffered from poor food and sanitation. Japanese bombing raids were few, mounted by day (with A6M escort) and by night (timing the attack for dawn or dusk unless there was moonlight). Losses were high,  1945 274 DAYLIGHT BOMBING including from US intruders which followed the bombers home. Having longer-ranged bombers, the USAAF was able to strike at the Japanese bases from airfields beyond the range of Japan's bombers. One Japanese tactic was to pull their bombers back to safer bases, only moving them forward when about to mount a raid. But intelligence and the ubiquitous PR aircraft often enabled a US strike on the forward bases when the bombers had arrived there. The US offensive in the Pacific included major landings in the Philippines (Luzon in January, then Corregidor and Mindanao), Iwo Jima in February, and then the huge operation against Okinawa in April; all were supported by large-scale use of land- and carrier-based air power. Unusually, the only major urban battle of the Pacific war, that for the Philippines capital Manilla, was fought without bombing. Mindful of civilian casualties, and despite the US having overwhelming air superiority, MacArthur forbade its use; but 100,000 civilians died in the land fighting. US Advances Against Japan Meanwhile, the air offensive against Japan itself was increasing steadily, and not just from the B-29s, and P-51s on Iwo Jima. It included on 16 February the first large-scale strategic attacks on land targets by carrier-based air units; US Navy Task Force 58 flew 2,761 sorties in two days, attacking airfields and aircraft factories around Tokyo. On 17 May, P-47 fighter-bombers flew from Ie Shima, Formosa, to attack Kyushu. Elsewhere, as part of the US blockade of Japan, the