d vulnerability to night fighters. In January 1944 the US 8th AF set up its own RCM unit (later, the 803rd BS), to work alongside 100 Group. The 803rd had five B-17s equipped with Gee, Carpet and Mandrel, plus a ferret B-17. After operations in support of RAF Bomber Command, and re-equipping with B-24s, the unit flew daylight Mandrel Screens and jamming missions against radar-directed flak, supporting the 8th AF. On 1 November, the 803rd provided 'spoof' VHF R/T traffic to simulate a second 8th AF raid forming. Then on 25 November, it provided the first 'VHF screen', using Mandrel to mask the 8th AF's R/T traffic during formation build-up. 'Mandrel Screen' Operations; the British 'Special Window Force' From May onwards, bombers of 199 Sqdn were assigned to 'Mandrel Screen' operations, jamming EW radars. Each Halifax carried up to eight Mandrel jammers for different  1944 222 BOMBER SUPPORT frequencies, plus 'Shiver' jammers for use against Würzburg radars. The extra electrical power for all the jammers was provided by special alternators on the outboard engines. To cover the D-Day invasion, Mandrel Screens were flown over the Channel by pairs of jamming aircraft flying on opposite sides around 10-minute 'racetrack circuits'. Later, a 'Creeping Mandrel' variation was introduced, to provide a screen moving slowly forward by flying the racetrack circuit with alternate shorter and longer legs. On D-Day, 'Window' was used to aid the Operation 'Taxable' simulation of two invasion fleets heading for the Pas de Calais while the real fleets approached Normandy; Lancaster bombers flew two racetrack patterns above launches, dropping 'Window' to boost the radar image. As a further distraction, 100 Group mounted a 'spoof' bomber stream along the Somme, with Lancasters and Fortresses using ABC and Window. On 14 July, 100 Group implemented a Special Window Force (SWF) for spoof missions, the SWF aircraft dropping Window to appear as a large bomber force. Thereafter, combined Mandr