ceptionally large operation came on 22 June with the US assault on Cherbourg, supported by 14 Wings of AEAF fighters and fighter- bombers providing a bomb-line carpet. The attack was opened by rocket-firing Typhoons and also included Window drops, and precision strikes by B-26 Marauders using Oboe. On 26 July 1944, the US 9th AF began 'Column Cover' missions, P-47s patrolling in relays of four over advancing US armoured columns. The tank commander could call down strikes when required, or to ask for searches ahead, the fighter-bombers seeking out and attacking German positions that were camouflaged or hidden in trees. The US 'Horsefly' variation employed an artillery officer in a Piper L-4 (Cub) using the same radio frequency as the controller and having a better view of each airstrike. When on 7 August, the Germans finally mounted a counter- offensive, near Mortain, the tanks were spotted, allowing the Allies to prepare a 'terrible welcome' [Terraine, 1985:660]. Relays of Typhoons quickly destroyed 90 tanks and 200 other vehicles, the first time that a Panzer unit had been destroyed by air-to-ground RPs. Reporting to Hitler on the Allied air operations, Gen.von Kluge declared, 'I see no way of developing any strategy that will cancel their annihilating effect ... ' [Piekalkiewicz, 1985:371]  1944 GROUND-ATTACK TECHNIQUES 232 Use of Heavy Bombers for Close Support; Casualties The 30th of June 1944 saw the first large scale use of heavy bombers in a tactical operation against armour, 256 RAF bombers using 'Controlled Oboe' wiping out a concentration of German tanks near Villers Bocage, in a 15-minute daylight raid. On 7 July, in Operation 'Charnwood', the RAF made the first night close support use of heavy bombers. But the ground to air signals which had been practised and agreed, were not used. Instead, with PFF marking and a bomb line 6,000 yards beyond the front line to avoid hitting friendly troops, the bomb carpet laid by the 450 Lancasters also largely overshot