use in 1943 of 'self-igniting liquids "KS" in AZh-2 casings'. [Fetzer, 1973:209] Bouncing Bombs: 'Upkeep' and 'Highball'; Kurt In Britain, development of the Wallis 'Upkeep' anti-dam weapon was authorized in February 1943. Carried by a modified Lancaster, the 9,250lb, 50-inch diameter bomb was cylindrical, and filled with Torpex. It was fitted with three hydraulic pistols set to detonate at 30ft depth of water, plus a 90-second time fuse as back-up. Production bombs were employed in the 'Dambusters' raid on the night of 16 May. Later, Upkeep bombs were test-dropped on land for possible use against canal embankments and locks. But Upkeep was never used operationally again. Of the other British bouncing bombs, the spherical 950lb, 32-inch diameter 'light' version of 'Highball' was to have been carried by the Mosquito, two per aircraft in tandem, and also by US aircraft (Avenger, B-25, B-26). It was intended for use against shipping, starting with the Tirpitz, although bouncing them into railway tunnels was also envisaged. It  1943 170 WEAPON DEVELOPMENTS was tested in 1943, but never saw operational use. The 'heavy' version of Highball was intended to be carried, one per aircraft, by Wellington and Warwick bombers for use against multiple arch dams and canal locks, as well as against shipping. But like the naval mortar-fired 'Baseball', it was never developed. After the dams raid, the Germans recovered a 'British revolving depth charge' and its equipment from the wreckage of a Lancaster. Once its operation was understood, rather than copy it the Germans began experiments on basic principles, so delaying for 18 months their own bouncing bomb. This, the SB800RS Kurt, a 400kg spherical bomb was successfully test dropped by Fw190G and Me410A aircraft, but cancelled in November 1944. A projected variant featured a rocket boost/tail unit and gyroscopic stabilization to increase range and provide greater safety for the dropping aircraft, the rocket unit breaking away on cont