roup 'Tiger Force' was to consist of 12 squadrons of Lancasters and one of Mosquitos, plus maintenance and airfield construction units. The force was to be based on Okinawa, for bombing attacks on Japan beginning on 1 October, including the use of Tallboy and Grand Slam bombs. Crew training and aircraft tropical- ization were still under way in Britain when Japan surrendered. The US Change to Night Area Bombing of Japanese Cities By early 1945, the USAAF was rethinking its bombing policy against Japan. Dispersed Japanese industry offered few valuable targets for precision bombing; the bombing accuracy being achieved in precision daylight raids from 32,000ft was unsatisfactory; and the B-29 loss rate was running at over 6 per cent. Since November 1944, the 21st BC had been attempting precision raids against nine priority targets. But with none of them yet destroyed, on 3 January a trial fire-bombing raid was mounted against Nagoya by almost 100 B-29s, the fires failing to coalesce. On 20 January LeMay replaced Brig. Gen. H.S. Hansell as C. in C. of the 21st BC. LeMay pursued precision bombing but mounted a fire raid on Kobe on 3 February, another on Tokyo on 23 February; neither was decisive, despite the largely wood-built Japanese houses. A more positive approach was thought necessary. Noting Intelligence reports that Japanese cities had few medium AA guns protecting them from attacks at lower altitude, LeMay ordered a change to night area fire-bombing from intermediate altitude (8,000ft), enabling three times the bomb load to be carried. In the ETO, the USAAF had argued that a change to night bombing would represent a major upheaval, needing extensive retraining. Now, in the Pacific, such a change was implemented with little difficulty. The first night raid was made by 170 B-29s against Tokyo on the night of 25 February. With Japanese night defences minimal, the B-29s were stripped of their defensive armour and all except tail guns in order to increase the bomb loa