n to censorship, misrepresentation, and a political distancing from the RAF's area bombing. US disassociation followed, even though the USAAF area bombing of Japanese cities was now getting under way. Then with only days to go in the European War, on 26 April the Soviet Air Force mounted its first large night strategic bombing raid, 563 medium bombers of the 18th Air Army flying from bases in Poland to attack Berlin.  1945 280 NIGHT BOMBING RAF 'Tiger Force' Preparations With the end of the war in Europe, and the completion of POW repatriation, the RAF began preparations for transferring part of Bomber Command for operations in the Far East. The proposed No.5-Group 'Tiger Force' was to consist of 12 squadrons of Lancasters and one of Mosquitos, plus maintenance and airfield construction units. The force was to be based on Okinawa, for bombing attacks on Japan beginning on 1 October, including the use of Tallboy and Grand Slam bombs. Crew training and aircraft tropical- ization were still under way in Britain when Japan surrendered. The US Change to Night Area Bombing of Japanese Cities By early 1945, the USAAF was rethinking its bombing policy against Japan. Dispersed Japanese industry offered few valuable targets for precision bombing; the bombing accuracy being achieved in precision daylight raids from 32,000ft was unsatisfactory; and the B-29 loss rate was running at over 6 per cent. Since November 1944, the 21st BC had been attempting precision raids against nine priority targets. But with none of them yet destroyed, on 3 January a trial fire-bombing raid was mounted against Nagoya by almost 100 B-29s, the fires failing to coalesce. On 20 January LeMay replaced Brig. Gen. H.S. Hansell as C. in C. of the 21st BC. LeMay pursued precision bombing but mounted a fire raid on Kobe on 3 February, another on Tokyo on 23 February; neither was decisive, despite the largely wood-built Japanese houses. A more positive approach was thought necessary. Noting Intelligence repo