s, Bomber Command ordered radio silence (no Monica, very sparing use of H2S/Fishpond, and only emergency R/T and IFF) for main force bombers on subsequent raids. The effect was immedi- ate. On the night of 23 July, only 4 of 629 aircraft raiding Kiel were lost. [R.V. Jones, 1978:586] Although before this, the British had found no real answer to it, the German night fighter force was soon becoming much less effective for other reasons: greater use of spoof raids; effective airborne jam- ming of the German radars; the capture of the German coastal early warning sites; bombers flying from the Con- tinent, giving less time for interceptions; losses of night fighters deployed against US day bombers; incessant attacks on the German airfields and radars; and the worsening German fuel shortage, which hampered operations and the training of new crews. By October, the German night fighter force was effectively neutralized. On the night of 14 October, only nine bombers were lost out of a huge total of 1,573 aircraft attacking Duisburg and Brunswick. Bomber Command Operations from Continental Bases; 'Fan Raid' Techniques By August, RAF heavy bomber raids into Germany were being mounted from Allied-held airfields in France. The shorter range allowed heavier bomb loads, and even successive day and night raids. As the Allied forces advanced, the British introduced mobile Gee, Oboe and Gee-H transmitters on the Continent, repeatedly moving them forward to enable precision raids deeper and deeper into Germany. Eventually, even Berlin was subjected to Oboe-marked bombing. By assigning different false wind settings, the RAF now often bombed two or more aiming points from one marker centre. If the bombers approached from several different directions, each AP became a curved arc 'aiming line'. On the night of 11 September, 249 RAF Lancasters and Mosquitos attacking Darmstadt implemented such a 'line bombing' fan raid, using two APs, to help spread the bombing over the target area. The b