ght raids were mauled by the Zeros, and navigation by inexperienced crews without radio aids, over mountainous jungle at night, brought further losses to little effect. In the USA, means of striking back at Japan were being reviewed. One scheme considered, in January 1942, was to try to bury large areas of Japan under layers of ash by a sustained bombing campaign against Japan's volcanoes. [B.F. Smith, 1983:101] Meanwhile, the dwindling US Pacific B-17 force had been reassigned to Java, where more were lost on the ground due to Japanese air strikes. But in the air, it was found that the high-flying B-17s could hold their own in this theatre. The Japanese had no early warning radar to enable fighters to be scrambled in time. The Zero fighters had poor performance at altitude and, lacking armour and fuel tank protection, were themselves much more vulnerable (than German fighters) to the B-17's defensive firepower. Even so, the effectiveness of the B-17s was limited, due to: inadequate logistics, airstrips and maintenance facilities; crew inexperience; tropical weather; and the use of the bombers in tactical and anti-shipping operations, often with small raids of five or six aircraft. Preparation for the US Daylight Bombing Offensive in Europe Despite the Pacific War needs, a 'Germany first' policy was adopted by the US government, the US 8th Air Force being formed on 14 January 1942 to operate in Britain, with Brig.Gen.I.C.Eaker in charge of the 8th Bomber Com- mand. The USAAF remained wedded to daylight precision bombing, which offered a distinctive and wholly American contribution to the war. British appeals to join with the RAF in night bombing were rejected, for reasons of: the  1942 152 DAYLIGHT BOMBING avoidance of crew retraining; the lack of flame-damped exhausts; the bomb loads being too small for the less precise bombing achieved at night; and the fact that a combination of US day and British night bombing would give the German defences no respite. On 4 July