inued with the smaller and faster Mosquito. The 1.5m Oboe Mk.I was first used operationally for bombing on 20 December, and for target marking on 31 December. Navigation to the Cat curve used Gee or a Bailie beam. Meanwhile, on the night of 23 April, KG100 pathfinders over Britain made the first use of the Taub version of X-Verfahren using modulation at supersonic frequencies. But British jamming was soon implemented. German and British Airborne Radar Repeaters; the 'Boozer' Radar Detector With a growing need for countermeasures against ground radars to aid bomber penetration, the Germans and the British both devised airborne repeaters for deception. Picking up a radar signal, amplifying and retransmitting it, could give a return signal far stronger than a normal radar echo, enabling one aircraft to give the impression of a large 139 formation. The first such use came in February. To aid the escape of the German battle-cruisers Scharnhorst and Gneisenau through the English Channel, two RCM He111s flew parallel to the coast, each carrying repeaters simulating a formation of 25 aircraft. But this countermeasure was to receive little use in supporting German bombing against Britain. The British TRE 'Moonshine' radar repeater, installed in Defiant fighters, was first used on 6 August; eight Defiants simulated a bomber force assembling for a raid, causing 30 German fighters to attempt interception. But a separate set was needed for each Freya frequency; it could only be used to simulate a daylight tight formation; and it could only be used for a short distance, so as to remain out of visual range of the German defences. Moonshine was with- drawn late in 1942. The first airborne radar warning receiver (RWR), the TRE 'Boozer', was fitted to bombers to give crews warning of radar activity, and hence of likely attack. The device registered illumination of the bomber on frequencies used by German radars, via warning lights in the cockpit (red for Lichtenstein, orange for Würz