Night Bombing Increased Effectiveness of British Night Bombing; By January 1945, the declining German defences, increasing experience of bomber crews (thanks to lower losses), the forward movement of blind bombing transmitters, and the refined marking techniques had all helped to increase the effectiveness of the British night raids on Germany. On 19 January, Speer noted that, 'the attacks which take place so often at night now are considerably more effective than daylight attacks, since heavier bombs are used and an extraordinary accuracy in attacking the target is reported'. [Webster and Frankland, Vol.III, 1961:235]. With few area targets left having combustible buildings, Bomber Com- mand's bomb loads were now mostly HE again. But a post-war study found that 18 per cent of British bombs (and 12 per cent of US ones) dropped on Germany at this period failed to explode, mostly due to structural failure. The RAF's night bombing reached its zenith on the night of 14 February, in an elaborate group of operations involving extensive use of countermeasures and diversions. A total of 1,193 bombers mounted three separate main force raids, one on Rositz and two on Chemnitz, plus seven different diversionary operations. Two groups of Window-dropping Mosquitos emerged through an intensive jamming screen, followed by two of the main force streams heading in different directions before converging again. The third main force stream was itself preceded by Window-dropping Mosquitos, and the other diversions included three more Mosquito spoof raids. Because of the complex diversions, few German night fighters reached the bomber streams and the overall loss rate was 1.3 per cent. Mosquito operations In January 1945, the previously almost invulnerable Mosquito bomber, without tail radar, began experiencing losses at night to Me262 day fighters attacking visually by 279 searchlight. To provide warning, the RAF flew some Mosquito intruders, having tail warning radar, amongst the bombe