978:200]. The raid, on Coventry on the night of 14 November 1940, was the war's most destructive yet, with 469 bombers in three streams dropping over 500 tons of bombs. Factories were the main targets, but 20,000 houses were destroyed and 554 people killed. KGr100 provided the target marking, using the X-Verfahren transmitters at Cherbourg and Calais. Later crews had little need of guidance, the burning city being visible on the horizon while the bombers were still over northern France. Britain's night defences were still minimal. and the Germans lost only one bomber. The raid shocked the world, but within five days virtually all of the city's factories were back in production. Coventry's casualties and destruction were small compared with those to be meted out on German cities later in the war. Ordered by Churchill as a reprisal for the Coventry bombing, Operation 'Abigail-Rachel', an attack by 134 bombers on Mannheim on 16 December 1940, was the first RAF raid to have a city itself as the target, rather than factories or marshalling yards within the city. For the first time also, the RAF used the pathfinder concept, long before the Pathfinder Force was set up. Crews were instructed to aim at incendiaries dropped by Wellingtons spearheading the raid. But, although the weather was clear, many incendiaries went wide and little damage was achieved. Despite all the experimenting, as the year ended the RAF night bomber crews' inability to find and bomb the correct target was still prevalent and still not fully appreciated. At this time Bomber Command was still assigned primarily to attacking small oil targets, which were far from easy to find. In December, after supposed heavy attacks on two oil plants at Gelsenkirchen, PR photos showed little damage to either. In mid-December, the Swiss protested at British bombs dropped on Zurich. [Piekalkiewicz, 1985:100] III 1941 Bomber Developments New Bombers New bombers making their first flights in 1941 included: the four-engine