Oil target: despite opposition from ACM Harris of Bomber Command, the Allied raids on refineries and synthetic oil plants in German and occupied territory eventually became a major factor in winning the European war. A direct hit could be spectacularly self-evident, as here with the Pardubice refinery in Czechoslovakia, under attack by 15th AF B-24s.  F2 413926 Above: Confounding the experts: combining the performance of an interceptor with the range of a bomber, the Merlin-engined P-51 Mustang escort fighter had a dramatic effect on the Western Front air war. These 8th AF P-51s have drop tanks and D-Day invasion stripes. One is a P-51B, the others P-51Ds, having a bubble hood and lowered rear fuselage for pilot rear view. The loss of rear fuselage side area gave reduced directional stability, later restored with a fin extension, as on the aircraft nearest the camera. Left: Rockets and debris: since RPs arrived ahead of the aircraft, crews using them with HE warheads in low-level attacks could find themselves flying into a lethal cloud of debris. Here an SAAF/BAF Beaufighter has just hit the middle one of three small locomotives, in Yugoslavia in 1945. Two further RPs are visible, streaking over the top of the locomotive. Shipyard attack: the yards at Monfalcone on the Gulf of Venice under attack in 1945, showing smoke from the bombing, plus craters and a capsized ship from a previous attack. The RAF Liberator has just been hit by a bomb from an aircraft above, causing the No. 2 engine to lose its propeller and to stream smoke; the crew managed to get it back to base. The Liberator's very efficient long- span Davis wing is evident in this plan view. Grand-slam success: water-filled craters - many from previous raids - surround the Bielefeld railway viaduct, showing seven spans destroyed after the RAF attack on 14 March 1945. 617 Squadron dropped 12,000-lb Tallboys and a 22,000-lb Grand Slam in its first operational use; this did much of the damage, with the large cr