sly operated from carriers. The B-25 offered the best take-off performance, needed for the short carrier deck. The assigned B-25s were fitted with autopilots, given extra tankage in place of the dorsal turret, and dummy guns in the tail to help discourage fighter attack. Volunteer crews were given Navy carrier take-off training. For the mission, the B-25s were lashed to the flight deck of the uss Hornet since they were too large for the deck lifts. Take-off was to be made with the carrier at full speed into wind, using painted white guide lines offset to one side of the deck to ensure wing-tip clearance of the 'island'. After discovery by a Japanese patrol vessel, the raid was launched from 800 miles out, further than intended, and earlier than the alerted Japanese expected. Tokyo's barrage balloons were down, and patrolling fighters did not spot the bombers far below. The B-25s successfully dropped their 2,000lb loads of HE and incendiary bombs, from c.1,500ft on Tokyo, Kobe, Nagoya, and Yokohama. Although most crews were saved, all 16 B-25s were lost because of fuel shortage and difficulties in reaching the landing fields in China, in bad weather. Raid damage was insignificant, but the mission boosted US morale and caused the Japanese to assign an extra four fighter groups to the defence of the homeland. The Japanese Army mounted massive reprisals in the Chinese provinces where the US aircrew sheltered. killing almost 250,000 Chinese. [Costello, 1985:239] In August, with a pre-landing bombardment by 5th AF B-17s and RAAF Hudsons with carrier-based air cover, US forces mounted Operation 'Watchtower', their amphibious invasion of the Pacific war, in the Solomons. first The landings on Tulagi and Guadalcanal captured the latter's near-complete new airfield, and USMC Dauntless dive-bombers and fighters were soon operating from the newly named Henderson Field. With the intermediate bases on Bougainville not yet ready, the Japanese mounted desperate raids on the beachhe