y. Improvised jamming of the beams (code-named 'Headache') began in August; purpose- built 'Aspirin' jammers became operational in September. By September the Germans had built nine smaller Knickebein transmitters on the coast facing Britain. But with the jamming showing that the beams had been discovered, the fear arose that RAF night fighters would patrol along them. Accordingly, Luftwaffe crews took to flying well to one side of the beam, moving into it only near the target. Meanwhile, measures introduced to evade the jamming included: frequency switching; leaving the beams switched off until the bomber was close to the target; and having the beams intersect over a decoy target and turning them to the real target only when the bomber was close to it. A British system for 'bending' the beams (to intersect in the wrong place) was devised at TRE, but not developed; and attempts to generate a decoy cross beam ahead of the real one (to cause bomb release over open country) were abandoned. But a German myth grew up that the British were 'bending'  Cano 1939-40 68 NAVIGATION, BLIND BOMBING AND RADAR the beams to divert the bombers, even though the Luftwaffe apparently flew intelligence missions along the beams to investigate the British countermeasures. [R. V. Jones, 1978:179] Radar Intelligence Failures Knowledge of the enemy's early warning defence capability, and implementing countermeasures against it, were impor- tant for bombing operations on any scale. But, for months. neither the British nor the Germans had much appreciation that the other had operational radar, and neither appeared well able to assimilate intelligence on the subject. The Germans ignored an agent's report on Britain's coastal chain of RDF stations; dismissed as inferior a British mobile radar set captured in May 1940; failed to probe French knowledge of British radars; and in a Luftwaffe Intelligence paper on the British defences on 16 July 1940, omitted any mention of radar. During the Battle o