n controllers, the British responded with German- speaking WAAFs. Corona eventually became an annoyance system, sending test transmissions, Hitler's speeches, etc. In December, the German Forces Annemarie transmitter began broadcasting particular types of music to indicate the area sector being penetrated by the main bomber stream. The British responded with 'Dartboard', jamming the music via the powerful Aspidistra transmitters. When the Germans took to using Morse, the British countered with random Morse signals from 'Drumstick' transmitters. Bomber Support Bomber Crew Training Developments By 1943, Germany and Japan were experiencing increasing difficulty with training aircrews, thanks to fuel shortages, inadequate resources, diversion of aircraft and instructors to operational duties, and short-cutting of training in order to speed the provision of urgently needed replacement crews. The inexperience of the new crews led to increased combat and accident losses. In the USSR, the early war phase of expediency was giving way to longer and better training. For the Western Allies especially, extensive training program- mes in the USA and Commonwealth countries were long  1943 178 BOMBER SUPPORT since established, with much emphasis on operational training on actual service aircraft types. For the Allies, much ingenuity was expended on training, including improving on the Link Trainer simulator. In Britain, the Silloth Trainer employed a complete bomber fuselage, with a realistic control system operated by air bellows, and with fully operating radio, electronics and systems; it was used to simulate complete flights. In 1943, Cambridge University devised a simulator for PFF crews to train on, aiding them to assess the MPI (Mean Point of Impact) of existing markers, to enable accurate back-up marking. Later, the British introduced the Jordan Trainer for training Master Bombers. To represent a position orbiting a German city under night attack, the trainee sat in darkness