82:98] Later in the war, the US Fort Detrick developed new anti-crop chemicals having a hormone-like effect on plants, causing them to grow rapidly and die. Two of these, dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and trichlorophe- noxyacetic acid (later 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T) became the US Agent Orange air-sprayed defoliant used in the Vietnam War. [Hersh, 1968:99] Japanese and British BW Developments: Anthrax and Plague Weapons By 1940, the Japanese at Pingfan had tested BW aerial spraying devices, and nine different types of aircraft BW bomb. Two of the latter, the Uji and Ha fragmentation bombs both used anthrax spores. Reportedly, on 4 October 1940, a Japanese aircraft over Changteh in China dropped plague (Bacillus pestis) contaminated wheat and rice grains in what may have been the first operational BW drop. Sporadic Japanese BW air raids in China continued into 1942, mostly with devices incorporating plague bacteria. [Harris and Paxman, 1982:78,80] Reports of these raids spurred Allied BW development. Britain's Porton Down had already been working on BW vaccines. In 1940, work began on BW weapons themselves, under Dr P.Fildes. The initial project was for a small, anthrax-impregnated cattle-cake, to be be dropped by RAF bombers to infect the enemy's livestock. This was apparently the world's first mass-produced biological weapon, some five million eventually being made. They were not used operationally, and were incinerated after the war. Bombing up: on a summer evening in 1941, a Short Stirling being prepared for a night raid, with bombs ready for loading, and a fuel bowser in attendance. The Stirling was the RAF's first four-engined heavy bomber of the War, but with a performance predictably compromised by a short span wing. Note the blackout curtains for night operations.  n 'Sowing the wind': the German night blitz on Britain was the first major bombing campaign against cities. Here, in Eastcheap, London Fire Brigade crews attempt to limit the damage from incendiary bomb att