gh a given area in as short a time as possible to saturate the defences. After turning, the stream might break up, some crews descending for a fast exit at well below British night fighter patrol height. Another change resulted from the British jamming of the German blind-bombing aids: the Luftwaffe shifted away from inland targets and towards coastal targets which were easier to find visually. The German bombers also now performed frequent small course shifts, which AI radar operators had difficulty in following. But despite all the changes, the loss rate to RAF night fighters was now climbing steadily. In May 1941, the Germans needed to withdraw a large part of the Luftwaffe bomber force away from the Western Front, for use in the invasion of the USSR. To keep the withdrawal secret, the reducing night raids on Britain were accompanied by spoof radio traffic to simulate the use of larger forces. Further, on the night of 10 May, double and triple sorties were implemented from airfields in France and Belgium to achieve a total of 550 sorties for the heaviest raid  1941 122 Can NIGHT BOMBING on London for the whole of the Blitz. The tactic was repeated at almost the same strength on 13 May. Overall, the German night blitz on Britain had been a comparative failure in terms of military results achieved. For the Germans, it confirmed a preference for using tactical bombing on the Eastern Front. Night Bombing Raid Photography The RAF had begun its night bombing with no night raid photographic capability. Efforts to overcome this had begun in 1940: initial trials with a manually opened and closed shutter on the F24 camera, and an 8-inch Photoflash Bomb dropped from under the wing; further trials with the shutter opened manually but closed by a photocell sensing the flash itself; then modification of the 4.5-inch reconnaissance flare to give the 4.5-inch Photoflash Mk.1 which could be dropped via the normal flare chute. On 5 February 1941, a Wellington successfully bombed a