f; then modification of the 4.5-inch reconnaissance flare to give the 4.5-inch Photoflash Mk.1 which could be dropped via the normal flare chute. On 5 February 1941, a Wellington successfully bombed and photographed Brest in an operational night trial. By June around 1 in 10 RAF bombers carried an F24 in the rear fuselage, and flew at the rear of the main force, for a raid accuracy assessment. The photos supplied evidence for the Butt Report, which showed the poor accuracy of the RAF's night bombing. By the start of the German blitz on Britain, the Germans had themselves introduced night raid photography, using the BLC50 flash bomb and relying on a manually opened and closed shutter. Initial Eastern Front German and Soviet Night Bombing On 21 July 1941, four waves of German bombers attacked Moscow for the first time at night, with HE and incendiary bombs. The Soviets lit decoy fires, but also flew Pe-2 and SB-2 bombers as 'decoy pathfinders' dropping incendiaries to try to divert the German bombers. As the raiders turned and headed back to base after the attack, some Soviet bombers followed in an attempt to bomb the German bases as the aircraft landed. Since early July, the Soviets had themselves resorted to night bombing to reduce losses, some attacks being made with obsolete TB-3 heavy bombers. On 8 August, the Soviets began limited night strategic bombing, with the first of a series of small raids against Berlin. This 123 first raid was made by thirteen DB-3F land-based naval bombers of the Baltic Fleet, flying from the island of Saaremaa. On the night of 11 August, Pe-8 four-engined bombers of the DA were used for the first time against Berlin, 6 of the 11 used being shot down (one by Soviet AA, by mistake). On 1 October, the Germans began their Operation 'Typhoon' offensive against Moscow, but their air opera- tions flown mainly from grass strips quickly became bogged down by rain and mud. The Soviets, operating from home bases with concrete runways, were bette