ptured in May 1940; failed to probe French knowledge of British radars; and in a Luftwaffe Intelligence paper on the British defences on 16 July 1940, omitted any mention of radar. During the Battle of Britain, German appreciation of the conspicuous British CH stations remained limited until early August. Thereafter, air strikes on them were made but not pursued. On the British side, the 'Oslo Report' on German military developments - including radar - was disregarded as a 'plant'; the Admiralty's discovery that the pocket-battleship Graf Spee had radar was not passed to the Air Ministry; and the latter were to debate the possibility that the Germans had operational radar repeatedly into 1941, long after Freya had been discovered. [R.V. Jones 1978:252] Critics were to argue later that the nightly sorties over Germany by Whitley bombers could have been far more productive if they had carried radio receivers instead of (or as well as) propaganda leaflets. Detection of the radars and radio beams mentioned in the Oslo Report would have been very useful. German First use of Radio and Radar Jamming Despite pre-war British experiments with radio counter- measures, the Germans were apparently the first to make offensive use of RCM to support bomber operations. For Operation Paula, attacking targets around Paris on 3 June 1940, the Germans began jamming the Eiffel Tower transmitter being used for directing French fighters. Early in 69 September, the German Funkmessstörung jamming service set up ground jamming transmitters near Cherbourg and Calais, and began operating them against the British CH radars. The British had learned to make some differen- tiation between a real trace and jamming interference, but despite the low power of the German jammers, the British radar performance was noticeably degraded. German use of X-Verfahren and Y-Verfahren; Counter- measures With Knickebein jammed, the Germans reintroduced X-Verfahren, with a first raid by KGr100 He111s on the night o