the radar to be countered. When illuminated by the radar, each strip acted as a half-wave dipole resonating and re-radiating the signal. Released from aircraft, dispersing and drifting down in large numbers, the strips would give a huge multiple echo, swamping the radar screen. But when Window was ready, in April 1942, its use was banned to prevent the Germans discovering the secret and using it against British defence radars. In 1942 the Germans themselves tested Düppel foil strip reflectors (on the Düppel estate near Berlin). The effect on the German radars was so severe that Hitler banned its use, and Göring ordered the destruction of all copies of reports on it. Thus both sides held the secret, neither daring to use it, for over a year, for fear that the other side would use it against them. British Air Navigation Developments; 'Gee'; 'Jay' In Britain, the Butt Report stimulated work on new navigational aids for bombers. Cherwell advocated work on 'apparatus by which a bomber could follow along the German high tension grid' by receiving the very low mains frequency signals given by the power lines. [Webster and Frankland, Vol.I, 1961:248] Then the first flight experiments with ground-imaging radar were achieved on 1 November, using a Blenheim with a 9cm AI Mk. VII nose radar tilted 10 degrees downwards. Although extremely crude, the imaging demonstrated the potential for navigation and blind bombing at any range, independent of ground stations. The concept was duly pursued as 'BN' (for Blind Navigation), later as 'H2S'. Meanwhile, 'Gee' had reached pre- operational status. Gee used a master transmitter sending out regular radio pulses, and two (later three) further slave transmitters at different locations sending out further pulses at fixed time intervals after receiving the pulses from the  1941 108 Ca BOMBER SUPPORT master. Installed on the east coast of Britain, Gee provided a grid of pulses fanning out over Western Europe. An aircraft's crew could determine