AF Bomber Command had a bomber with the speed, altitude and manoeuvrability to outstrip existing German day fighters, plus the range to penetrate far into Germany. The first such daylight raid was at low level, by four Mosquitos against Cologne on 31 May, the morning after the first '1,000 bomber' raid. Thereafter, Mosquito bombers (disguised in Fighter Command colours) regularly flew day- light high-level nuisance and low-level precision attacks. For low-level, at times with two groups making co-ordinated diving attacks and passes to confuse AA defences, tight formations of four, six or eight aircraft released 2,000lb of bombs each, horizontally into the sides of selected buildings. Delay fuses ensured all were past before the leader's bombs exploded. The first such raid on German HQ buildings, was on the Gestapo HQ in Oslo on 25 September; four bombs smashed through the walls, but failed to explode. During 1942, the 4 x 250lb internal bomb load of the Mosquito was increased to 4 x 500lb. Telescopic fins to enable the larger bombs to fit into the bomb bay proved unnecessary; the bomb ballistics remained acceptable with cropped fins. US Pacific Theatre Operations: the 'Doolittle' Raid; Guadalcanal One of the boldest joint-service operations of the war consisted of a unique carrier-launched one-way raid by 16 US Army North American B-25B medium bombers, against Tokyo on 18 April 1942. The raid, led by Lt. Col. J.H. Doolittle, satisfied Roosevelt's requirement for a token strike against Japan in retaliation for the attack on Pearl  1942 156 DAYLIGHT BOMBING 157 The Flying Fortress versus Enemy Fighters; Precision Daylight Bombing Harbor. The operation was prepared in secret. No single-engined aircraft had the payload/range needed, and twin-engined aircraft had not previously operated from carriers. The B-25 offered the best take-off performance, needed for the short carrier deck. The assigned B-25s were fitted with autopilots, given extra tankage in place of the dorsa