fensive' At Casablanca in January 1943, Roosevelt and Churchill authorized a co-ordinated US/British 'Combined Bomber Offensive' (CBO). Its main objective, later restated in the  1943 192 DAYLIGHT BOMBING OPERATIONS Eaker Plan and Pointblank directive, was the destruction of the German fighter industry. Eaker suggested that US day bombers could use incendiaries to start fires on key targets as markers for RAF bombers to attack that night. But Harris gave priority to area bombing, and the CBO became 'more of a bombing competition'. [Webster and Frankland, Vol.II. 1961:5] Eaker was now claiming that US day bombing was five times as accurate as British night bombing, while - since the German night defences had improved considerably - the US bomber loss rate by day was actually lower than the RAF's at night. But a missing B-17 represented 10 crewmen lost as against 7 for a Lancaster, and US penetrations into enemy-held airspace were still much shorter than those of the RAF. Medium Bomber Operations: Mosquitos and Berlin; US 9th Air Force On 30 January 1943, six of the RAF's fast, high-flying Mosquito Mk.IV bombers made the first Allied daylight raids on Berlin, timed to disrupt speeches by Göring and Goebbels at a Nazi rally. The US 9th AF had been formed in the Middle East, with a first raid (by B-24s) on Naples on 4 December 1942 During 1943, the 9th's medium bombers performed many small daylight raids, some against shipping. Most raids against land targets were made at dusk to allow a return in darkness, landing by the light of truck headlights or flares Pattern bombing was used, by small formations from 30,000ft, where flak was severe - as at Naples. Against airfields, several small groups were assigned to bomb different hangar or dispersal areas. From Britain, 12 unescorted B-26s attacked Ijmuiden power station at low level in daylight on 14 May, achieving little damage. After a repeat raid on 17 May, when the defences were ready and all 11 B-26s were lost, the pol