the Allies seldom equalled the early German success rate on the ground. Bombing Technology and Tactics The technology of bombing had seen steady advances during the war, with the bombers themselves; new, bigger and more specialized bombs; improved bombsights; new navigation and blind-bombing aids; target illumination and marking; and electronic warfare support. Techniques and tactics varied as the war progressed, and depended markedly on enemy defence capability in the different war theatres. Only Britain and the US used fleets of heavy bombers for strategic bombing. Only Britain used very large HE bombs. Despite the effects of weather, defence action, decoys, etc., the Allied area bombing of towns using HE and incendiaries in combination, had been brought to a high level of destructiveness, even if its military value had remained questionable. Precision low-level and dive- bombing strikes had often been very efficient also. Medium- and high-level bombing against defended key targets had mostly become effective, if still relatively wasteful. Specialist bombs and improved bombsights helped, but it had often needed a large force and many bombs to take out a bridge or a building, giving much peripheral destruction. The new guided bombs (Azon, Fritz-X) offered an improvement, perhaps with wire guidance to avoid jamming. In daylight operations, accurate visual bombing was often prevented by overcast cloud, requiring resort to blind bombing. Also, despite US expectations, and improved armament, armour and self-sealing tanks, the day bomber - even the formidable B-29 - had remained vulnerable to fighters. The key to deep penetration daylight bombing came with the US development of the long-range single-seat fighter. Vital as an escort, the P-51 was available in numbers early enough for sweeps and strikes against the Luftwaffe's 285 bases to neutralize the Me262. In night bombing, the RAF's difficulties in finding and marking the target were progressively overcome, the diff