fend themselves adequately. They were withdrawn in August. Long-range Single-engine Escort Fighters; the P-51B Mustang Belatedly, in 1943 the Allies began using fighters with drop tanks for extended sweep and escort operations. The British introduced 108-gallon laminated plastic/paper tanks, but although the 8th AF in Britain also began using these on P-47s (on 28 July), the US Wright Field rejected the British tanks as unsuitable and began developing aluminium ones. For really long range, greatly increased internal fuel was also needed. Thus, the Soviets increased the internal tankage of the Yak-9, giving the Yak-9D with a radius of 700km. Needing a long-range escort fighter in Britain, US Gen. H.H. Arnold had three Spitfires specially modified and flown across the Atlantic in stages to Britain (the only single-seat fighters to do so) to try to convince the British to convert some of their under-utilized Spitfires as escorts for the US bombers [Webster and Frankland, Vol.II, 1961:43]. Thanks largely to Portal's scepticism that any long range escort could operate against short-range interceptors, and despite the proven long-range performance of PR Spitfires, the British did not respond, and left the US to develop its own long-range fighter. This appeared in December. The North American P-51B with drop tanks offered a combat radius of 880 miles, allowing fighter escort deep into Germany. The first escorted long-range mission, against Kiel 500 miles away, was flown on 13 December. The balance of power in the Western Front daylight air war was shifting dramatically. Allied Weather Reconnaissance to Support Bombing The weather over Europe being crucial for bombing operations, during 1943 the Allies introduced weather flights specifically to support the bomber offensive. In April, RAF Bomber Command's new 1409 Met Flight, with Mosquitos, began long-range meteorological sorties, code-named  1943 180 BOMBER SUPPORT 'Pampas', over enemy territory. Soon, each raid was preced