'H' radio system, for use with 'Gee' as a combined navigation/blind bombing aid, 'Gee-H'. The 'H' part operated like Oboe in reverse, giving pulses which were picked up at two separate ground stations at known locations and retransmitted. The pulses were received back on the aircraft's Gee set, where the two time delays gave the aircraft's position by triangulation. The 'H' ground stations could handle sufficient frequencies for up to 50 aircraft simultaneously, a big improvement on Oboe. The enemy could detect and home onto an aircraft's H pulses, but sparing use (near the target only) minimized this risk. Gee-H was first successfully used on 7 October 1943. Electronic Warning and Countermeasures Tail-warning Radars: 'Monica'; 'Neptun' The RAE 'Monica', the first aircraft tail warning radar, entered service on RAF bombers early in 1943. Tail- mounted and pointed rearwards, it gave the crew audible 'bleeps' to warn of any aircraft detected at the rear. But an approaching night fighter could remain unnoticed among bleeps generated by other bombers. Monica was also dangerous since night fighters could be equipped to home onto its transmissions, and by March examples of Monica were in German hands from aircraft shot down. It was argued later that with the German night fighters known to be using AI radar, the bombers could have relied on using Boozer; instead, although partly superseded by (the similarly dangerous) 'Fishpond', Monica remained in use until mid-1944, when in some estimates, it had been responsible for more bomber losses than any other single device of the war. [Gunston, 1976:11] By October, German bombers over Britain were also using tail-warning radar (FuG214 Lichtenstein BC/R, later FuG216 R-1 (Neptun R-1), but with less risk than the British use of 'Monica'; German bombers were seldom part of a stream, and evasive action could be taken whenever any aircraft registered on the radar. Late in the war, US B-17s and B-24s operating at night were fitted with