ermany's urban population. [Harris and Paxman, 1982:104] But while production progressed, the rapid Allied advance following the D-Day invasion kept the plan in abeyance. As a more acceptable/humane alternative to anthrax, the US developed a brucellosis weapon which offered high casualties but with low mortality and contamination lasting only a few days. Meanwhile however, botulinus toxin - rated as the most virulent BW agent of the war [Hersh: 12,97] - was also isolated, at Fort Detrick in 1944. Eight ounces of the agent, distributed appropriately, could wipe out the world's population; and it was non-persistent, being destroyed by 12 hours of exposure to air, so avoiding the uncontrollability of most BW agents. Allied chiefs feared that the German V-1 flying bomb might be used to launch botulinus toxin into British cities, and the arrival of V-1s with only HE warheads came as some relief. German Work on an HE/Thermonuclear Bomb Early in 1944, under Dr K. Diebner, the German weapons establishment at Kummersdorf carried out experiments towards an HE/thermonuclear bomb. The tests used conventional explosive surrounding a silver spherical container filled with deuterium. It was hoped that the melting silver and converging shock waves generated by the explosion would momentarily achieve the enormous temperatures and pressures needed to cause nuclear fusion (hydrogen atoms forming helium) with great release of energy. Success at small scale would be shown by radioactivity after the experiment, but none was found and the programme was abandoned. In mid-1944, the appear- ance of extra-large craters (presumably from the RAF's 'Tallboy' bombs) led to German fears that the Allies might themselves have developed an HE/Thermonuclear bomb, perhaps using hollow-charge explosive. Technicians with Geiger-Müller counters examined the craters, but found no radioactivity. [Irving, 1967:216, 226] In November, the Allies became concerned at major construction at sites around Hechingen,