ons in 1939 included- the 'choking gases' (Green Cross), e.g. chlorine and phosgene (carbonyl chloride); the 'nettle gases', lethal at the higher concentrations; the 'blood gases' (Blue Cross) principally hydrogen cyanide and cyanogen chloride; the 'vesicants' or 'blister gases' (Yellow Cross), in two classes- the 'arsenicals', notably lewisite (chlorovinyldichloroarsine) and mustard gas (dichlorethyl sulphide) and its derivatives- and finally, secret new 'nerve gases' or anticholinesterase agents. The first two of the latter, tabun (cyanodimethy- 49 laminethoxphosphine oxide) and sarin (fluoroisopro- poxymethylphosphine oxide) had been discovered under Dr G. Schrader at I.G. Farben in Germany, in 1937 and 1938 respectively, while researching insecticides. They were, respectively, some ten and twenty times more lethal than previous chemical weapons, and totally unknown elsewhere. Chemical Bombs and Spraying Since the chemicals used were liquids which would evaporate to form a heavy toxic vapour, chemical bombs were purpose-built with tight sealing for handling and storage, and usually had some means of ejection or dispersion (e.g. air burst, spray, ground burst, or tail ejection) by explosive charge or compressed gas. At the outbreak of war, Germany had stockpiled 50kg KC50 bombs containing Green Cross and Yellow Cross chemicals; Britain had 30lb, 50lb and 250lb LC mustard gas bombs; Japan had developed parachute-dropped mustard gas spray bombs; and the French had a 200kg phosgene bomb and small mustard gas grenades dropped in clusters of 50. The Italians had mustard, phosgene and lewisite bombs, and for visually assessing wind strength and direction for optimizing chemical drops, introduced a 5kg Vento Marker in two versions, giving smoke for day use and a flame for night. Low-altitude spraying of chemicals from an aircraft in flight used a special sealed tank with dispensing pipes and nozzles, and compressed gas to force out the tank contents; some smoke-laying ca