'; German bombers were seldom part of a stream, and evasive action could be taken whenever any aircraft registered on the radar. Late in the war, US B-17s and B-24s operating at night were fitted with AN/APS-13 tail warning radar. Chaff (Foil) Strips for Radar Jamming: Giman-shi; Window; Düppel With 'Window' and Düppel held secret and unused in Europe, in May 1943 strips of Giman-shi (deceiving paper), 75cm long to counter the 1.5m US gun control radars, were dropped by IJN aircraft during night raids on Guadalcanal. This use seems not to have been reported by the Japanese to the Germans, nor by the Americans to the British. But in June, Churchill accepted that the balance of advantage was  1943 176 BOMBER SUPPORT now favourable for Window. As first used in the Hamburg raid on the night of 23 July, it consisted of 30cm × 1.5cm strips of foil, stiffened by backing paper and lamp-blacked so as not to show up in searchlights. Bundles were hand-dropped down flare chutes at one per minute, to burst and drift down to litter the towns and countryside below; the descent could take two hours or more. For the Hamburg raid, the RAF's losses (12 aircraft out of 791) were only 1.5 per cent compared with 6 per cent on previous raids. The blinding of the Würzburg radars was so complete that Göring offered a money prize for a countermeasure. Early radar devices (Würzlaus, Nürnberg) attempting to discrimi- nate between slow-moving foils and fast-moving aircraft brought little success. The Germans' own Düppel foil was first used operationally on the night of 7 October, during a raid on Norwich. The 80cm strips disrupted the older type British ground and AI radars, and prevented IFF interrogation. By the end of 1943, chaff was also being used by the USAAF. Meanwhile, the first US airborne jammers had been introduced in B-17s over Italy in October 1943, AN/APT-2 'Carpet' jamming Würzburg AA control radars. and AN/APT-3 'American Mandrel' countering the Freya EW sets. Allied Communicati