April, RAF Bomber Command's new 1409 Met Flight, with Mosquitos, began long-range meteorological sorties, code-named  1943 180 BOMBER SUPPORT 'Pampas', over enemy territory. Soon, each raid was preceded by a Mosquito flying to the target zone (indirectly to avoid giving away the target) to radio back weather data; missions were also flown for the USAAF. In addition, on each RAF raid 'Windfinder' H2S bomber crews radioed back information on wind speed and direction; averaged winds ('zephyrs') were then broadcast to all crews. By mid-1943, prior to each major 8th AF raid, a B-17 'weather ship' climbed to operational height to report on cloud, icing and contrail formation. In September, the 8th AF began long-range B-17 met. flights from Cornwall out over the Atlantic. Later, in 1944, the 8th AF began flying 'Scout' over-target sorties 15 minutes ahead of the bomber force, to report on the weather, smoke, defence activity, etc. The Mosquitos used were later replaced by P-51s since these were less distinguishable from escorts. Planning routes and Targets: PR and PI; US 'Flak Analysis The Allied CIU (Central Interpretation Unit) at RAF Medmenham assigned specialist photo-interpretation groups to different target types, new constructions, bomb damage. camouflage, decoy sites, etc. They used the growing stock of aerial photos (eventually over 15 million), comparing recent with earlier ones to detect signs of change. One group's task was to prepare a detailed information folder for each coming raid, giving annotated photomosaic aic target maps, plus details about the target, flak defences, decoy sites, etc. Repro- duction, to provide a copy to each bomber crew, was a major task for a large raid. Deceptive routing was needed for PR sorties over highly sensitive targets, so as to avoid triggering increased defences around the site. For the 'Dambusters Raid', pre-raid photos were taken from high altitude while appearing to be on course for another target, which was duly overflo