ototypes to evaluate, but production plans did not materialize. High-altitude Bombers The year 1940 saw serious efforts to achieve stratospheric bombers. In Germany, the Junkers Ju86P-1 unarmed pressurized high-altitude bomber was to make a silent glide approach to the target from around 12,000m with the engines throttled back. After bombing from around 10,000m, it was to climb back to the cruise altitude for the return. Several entered service late in 1940 with occasional sorties over Britain. Meanwhile, work began on the Heinkel He274, a high-altitude derivative of the He177 with a pressure cabin, long-span wings, and four separate engines with turbosuperchargers. In Britain, high-altitude variants of the Wellington had a bulbous pressure cabin with a tiny viewing dome for the pilot. The Mk. V had turbosuper- chargers, the Mk. VI two-stage gear superchargers and, later, an extended span wing. But as with other attempts elsewhere, severe development problems were encountered with the turbochargers and with icing and lubrication. Only one Mk. V was built, and 60 of the 67 Mk. VIs were scrapped. New Long-range Heavy Bomber Projects In January 1940 the US issued a requirement for a 'Hemisphere Defense Weapon', a superbomber to replace the B-17 and B-24, with performance far beyond either. It resulted in four competing designs: Boeing XB-29, Lockheed XB-30 (a bomber derivative of the Model 049 transport which became the Constellation airliner), Douglas XB-31 and Consolidated XB-32. The B-29 was chosen, with small numbers of the B-32 ordered as a back-up. While, in mid-1940 US and British military representatives discussed possible future US bombing against Germany from bases in Britain should the USA be drawn into the War, in Germany the possibility of striking at US cities from Europe was being considered. Initially, one-way raids were proposed, the bomber crew having to ditch at a pre-arranged spot in the Atlantic on the way back, for rescue by submarine. Later, subm