ehicles and wreck aircraft, until they were cleared away the next morning. The British also made air-drops of crowsfoot spikes, in the Far East in 1944. The war's largest blast bomb, the British 12,000lb HC 'Blockbuster' was effectively three 4,000lb HC canisters in series, with an annular tail unit. It was intended for attacks against specific large buildings, being less effective than three 4,000lb bombs against dispersed area targets. A Lancaster bomb bay could carry a single one. It was first used on the night of 15 September 1943, by 617 Squadron Lancasters in a low-level attempt to breach the banks of the Dortmund Ems canal. 169 'FRAS' Petrol Bombs: Allied Development of 'Napalm' and The first US trial with gasoline bombs was on 16 May 1942, at Lae. In 1943, US carrier crews improvised a gasoline-filled practice bomb tied to a 1001b GP bomb so that the blast would ignite and spread the gasoline. Such attempts confirmed the need for a thickener in the fuel. In the USA and Britain, work had been under way since 1941 on firebombs made with petrol converted to a less volatile gelled form, as used in flame-throwers. A thickener, such as rubber, reduced the spread, slowed the rate of burning, and developed higher temperatures, thereby causing deeper damage. With rubber in short supply, research moved to alternative thickening agents. Work under Prof. L. Fieser at Harvard University led to a formulation of naphthenate, palmitate and lauric acid as a thickener, giving the 'napalm' jellied gasoline bomb, ignited by white phosphorus. The British gelled fuel, 'FRAS' (Fuel Research Aluminium Stearate) using aluminium stearate as the thickener, was developed for flame-throwers but later used in aircraft bombs as an alternative to napalm. Elsewhere, Soviet sources refer to VVS use in 1943 of 'self-igniting liquids "KS" in AZh-2 casings'. [Fetzer, 1973:209] Bouncing Bombs: 'Upkeep' and 'Highball'; Kurt In Britain, development of the Wallis 'Upkeep' anti-dam weapon was author