the end of the war. The expectation that the Germans were more likely than the Japanese to achieve an A-bomb influenced the US adoption of a 'Germany first' war policy. But eleven days after Roosevelt authorized the Manhattan Project, the Japanese 137 Government approved their 'Project A' programme for an A-bomb. Initially, the work was for the Navy, later for the Army under Dr Y. Nishina. In December, a report noted that the programme would probably take 10 years; theoretical work continued at a low level right to the end of the war. Already authorized by Stalin in April 1942, the Soviet A-bomb programme, led by Dr I. Kurchatov, was to receive considerable help via espionage in the USA, notably by Klaus Fuchs at Los Alamos. Surprisingly, in 1943 the Soviets were to request (and apparently receive) from the USA under Lend-Lease the materials, including uranium oxide and heavy water, to enable a duplication of the Fermi atomic pile experiment. [Kilmarx, 1962:213] Navigation, Blind Bombing and Radar Navigation Aids: 'Gee', 'Loran', 'H2S' On 8 March, the British made the first major use of the 'Gee' radio system, in a night raid on Essen. The Germans soon concluded that RAF bombers could find their way over Germany with or without the aid of German broadcast transmitters, but requests to restart evening broadcasting to the German public were rejected. The first Gee set reached German hands on 29 March, from a Wellington shot down off Wilhelmshaven; water immersion prevented ignition of the Gee set's self-destruct charge. But, thanks to the spoof 'J' beams, jamming of Gee did not begin until 4 August. In the USA, the LRN, later AN/APN-4 'Loran' (Long Range Navigation) system was developed using the same hyper- bolic grid principle as Gee, and with the receivers made interchangeable. It used lower frequency (2Mc/s) for longer range over the sea, and would aid bombing missions over the Pacific. Unlike Gee, it used only two stations, giving position on a line; switching to