ar activity, and hence of likely attack. The device registered illumination of the bomber on frequencies used by German radars, via warning lights in the cockpit (red for Lichtenstein, orange for Würzburg). Being passive, Boozer would not betray the presence of the aircraft carrying it. But it could not detect a night-fighter operating visually or homing passively onto some transmission from the bomber. Boozer was first used by PFF bombers on 13 November. Airborne Jammers; the IFF 'J-Switch' and 'Shiver'; 'Mandrel'; 'Tinsel' In Britain, Dr R. V.Jones had warned Bomber Command in September 1941 that the Germans could develop a means of triggering the IFF sets on RAF bombers, if the sets were left switched 'on', and so use the received signal to track or home onto the bombers. Little notice was taken. Worse, during 1942, RAF bomber crews began believing that pulses from their IFF sets helped to jam German searchlight control radars, and therefore afforded a measure of protection. The belief was erroneous, but was encouraged by Bomber Command on the grounds that it aided crew morale at a time when life expectancy was very low. [R.V. Jones, 1978:492] In June, IFF sets on RAF bombers were fitted with a 'J' (for jamming) switch enabling them to  1942 140 GROUND-ATTACK DEVELOPMENTS transmit continuously. In December 'Shiver' - a modified IFF Mk.II set incorporating a true jammer - replaced the IFF/'J' switch. But it was soon withdrawn from main force use, as ineffective. The TRE 'Mandrel' airborne radar noise jammer countered German Freya radars by radiating signals in the same frequency range as the radar, to swamp the normal return echo and so obliterate formation size and range information. It was installed first in Defiant aircraft, and used to blind the coastal Freya chain by providing a 200-mile long 'Mandrel screen'. The screen was first used, along with 'Tinsel', during a raid on Mannheim on 3 December. Other Mandrel sets were fitted to heavy bombers and used on th