ockets just before 'brakes-off'.  1944 234 GROUND-ATTACK TECHNIQUES US Strafing Attacks on Airfields; Allied Use of Flak As air opposition declined, 8th AF fighters went over more and more to a roving offensive against ground targets, plus systematic attacks against airfields, mostly with strafing .. P-47 pilots adopted a diving attack, using the pull-out to provide a swath of bullets. For a planned attack, three squadrons would approach at low level for surprise, the first climbing to 3,500ft as top cover, while the second strafed AA gun positions. Then as the third squadron strafed aircraft and installations on the airfield, the second climbed to replace the first, which then attacked anything left undamaged by the other two. For fixed, defended targets, flak suppression became a separate support role. Approaches used included: a preceding strafing sweep against the AA positions, by fighters; bombing of AÅ positions by medium bombers at altitude before fighter- bombers swept in low; and split attacks, e.g. with Typhoons, four with RPs would attack the target while others attacked the AA defences with cannon. Flak suppression at the front line was also performed by ground forces; as Allied bombers flew overhead to attack targets further to the rear, Army field guns pounded enemy AA positions in the front line to minimize the AA response. Suppression Allied Dive- and Low-level Bombing Attacks In 1944, P-40, P-51, P-47 and Typhoon fighter-bombers each began carrying 2,000lb bomb loads. Key buildings targeted by Allied Intelligence were marked with phosphorus rockets by lead Typhoons; 'Bomphoons' then bombed singly or side-by-side, at roof-top height, the bombs smashing through the side of the building. Such targets included the German 15th Army HQ at Dordrecht on 24 October 1944 (when a conference was known to be taking place), and the Gestapo HQ in Amsterdam on 26 November. For well-defended targets, the leader marked then climbed to direct the raid by R/T, splittin