ber technique. The raid was carried out by 19 Lancasters; only 11 returned. Of the 5 dams, only the Möhne and Eder were successfully breached. The Upkeep was quite unsuitable for the shallow-sloped Sorpe earth dam; dropped on top to make a breach at the crest, it rolled down to make an ineffective crater far from it. Overall, some 1,200 people drowned, many of them Soviet POWs, and little interruption was caused to the Ruhr power supplies. But with spectacular PR photos taken the next morning, it provided a tonic for Allied morale, and boosted Wallis's standing; the 24-year old Gibson was awarded the VC. Given the aircraft and crew losses, the raid was never repeated, and by September the dams had been repaired, with greatly increased defences. Wallis himself was critical that no attempt was made to use conventional bombing to disrupt the repair work on the dams. The 'Firestorm' Phenomenon; Krefeld; the Hamburg 'Firestorm' Raid The Feursturm (firestorm) phenomenon had been predicted in Germany in 1927 [Rumpf, 1963:93] but it took the war to bring realization - the RAF night raid on Krefeld on 21 June 1943 providing the first major example. A firestorm resulted from a distribution of fires with a concentrated central one of such intensity that the updraught caused radially inflowing winds of hurricane velocity, uprooting trees, carrying burning debris, feeding the fires and forcing them beyond all possible control. The level of devastation and civilian casualties was unprecedented. This amplification of damage was not possible with HE bombs. Nevertheless, a factor in achieving it was the deliberate associated use of HE bombs. GP bombs gave craters and heaps of rubble (impeding fire trucks), broken gas mains (to feed the fires), and broken water mains (to hamper fire fighting). Blast bombs destroyed windows and roofs, giving the following incendiaries a good air supply to build the fires. Operation 'Gomorrah', Bomber Command's second major campaign of 1943 was the Bat