itish Anthrax Bomb With a new 500lb LC phosgene bomb being tested, early in 1942 Churchill promised Stalin that Britain's 'immense stock of gas bombs for discharge from aircraft' would be used against Germany if the Germans began gas attacks on the Eastern Front. [Overy, 1981:56] But while the combatant countries all stockpiled conventional war chemicals, the principal CW development of the period came in Germany, where after further research, 'tabun' nerve gas was put into large-scale production in April 1942. Research on the second nerve gas 'sarin' continued. Sarin was twice as potent as tabun, and had the advantage of being non-persistent. But it was difficult to manufacture, corrosion problems requiring the use of silver-lined apparatus. During 1942, the Porton Down team in Britain developed a 25lb Biological Warfare bomb containing an HE charge and a slurry of anthrax (Bacillus anthracis) spores. When the bomb exploded the spores would disperse as an invisible cloud, to settle on and infect anything in the downwind area. Field trials took place on the uninhabited Scottish island of Gruinard, first with static explosions among tethered sheep, then later in 1943 with a low-level drop from a Wellington bomber. Gruinard remained prohibited until a 10-year decontamination programme was completed in 1990. The US 'Manhattan' Programme; the Beginnings of the Hydrogen Bomb In May 1942, the US began work on facilities for separating out fissionable 235U from uranium, by different techniques and on a huge scale. In August, Roosevelt authorized the 'Manhattan Engineer District' programme for the develop-  1942 136 NAVIGATION, BLIND BOMBING AND RADAR ment of an atomic bomb, under Brig. Gen. L.R. Groves and Dr J. Robert Oppenheimer. Given the possibility of A-bomb development by the Axis Powers, the Manhattan Project received top priority, with enormous funding and a Top-Secret rating. Centred on Los Alamos, it was to result in two types of A-bomb, using uranium 235 and plu