r was hit, but managed to escape when one of the fighter's cannon jammed and the recoil from the other caused the fighter to slew and stall. Thereafter, the high-altitude sorties were suspended except for a last one on 2 October, with reduced fuel and no bomb, purely to test the defences. [Price, 1977b:138] Night Bombing The British Adopt 'Area Bombing' of German Cities; Leaflet Dropping Early in 1942, RAF Bomber Command remained the Allies' only means of attacking Germany. But with its ability to hit small industrial targets shown to be poor and new bombing aids not yet available, 'area bombing' of German industrial towns and cities became the main objective. The Air Ministry directive of 14 February decreed that operations 'should now be focussed on the morale of the civil population and, in particular, of industrial workers', and listed the 'primary' and 'alternative' target cities. Portal wanted it made 'quite clear' that now 'the aiming points are to be the built-up areas, not for instance the dockyards or aircraft factories'. [Hastings, 1979:157] On 22 February, Air Marshal A.T. Harris took over as C. in C. Bomber Command, and was to become uniquely identified with the area bombing policy. Despite Britain's own experience of being bombed, the policy was based on a belief that  1942 160 NIGHT BOMBING bombing of population centres would be highly damaging to civilian morale. Homelessness and fear would result in absenteeism and an exodus of refugees, which coupled with disruption of transport and communications due to the bombing, would add to the production losses from factories themselves being destroyed. In March, Churchill's Scientific Adviser, Lord Cherwell, provided a report with statistics justifying area bombing in terms of the number of people made homeless. On average one bomber should achieve 40 tons of bombs dropped during its life. If dropped on towns, these would make 4,000 to 8,000 people homeless. If only half of the bombs were dropped on target,