sitions were normally made by a six-aircraft group, peeling off from echelon formation at 10,000ft. Reports of the Vengeances' successes, albeit against minimal air opposition, were received with some embarrassment by the Air Ministry in  1942 148 GROUND-ATTACK OPERATIONS Britain, and largely suppressed. [Smith, 1981:173] Mean- while, that other reluctant dive-bomber operator, the USAAF, withdrew its A-24 Banshees after six out of seven were shot down in an attack on Buna on 29 July, and soon replaced its Vengeances with A-36s. But the USMC and Navy continued to operate the SBD Dauntless version of the A-24 with success into 1945. On the Eastern Front, the Petlyakov Pe-2 had mainly been used as a conventional bomber to reduce training requirements, but during 1942 it became increasingly and successfully used as a dive-bomber. but in shallow dives (up to 30 degrees). Late in 1942, the Soviet 150th Bomber Regiment, under Col.I.S.Polbin. introduced a squadron Vertushka or carousel for Pe-2 ground attack. With this technique, the aircraft formed a defensive circle, leaving it one after the other for a diving attack in the target area, and climbing out to rejoin the circle ready for a repeat attack. The method ensured effective coverage of the target as well as mutual defence against fighters, but subjected each aircraft to concentrated AA fire as it attacked. Meanwhile Soviet sources indicate that by 1942, VVS fighters were making 'vertical attacks' on ground targets. [Fetzer, 1973:122] Operations in North Africa Exploiting lax Allied intelligence security, Rommel's North African offensive drove the British back to Egypt at a rate which left the Luftwaffe behind, thanks to inadequate transport. Then, in a diversion which could be ill-afforded. the Luftwaffe flew 15,000 sorties against the Free French-held fort of Bir Hakim. But through the second half of 1942, the British built up their forces in North Africa. including the RAF's Western Desert Air Force. US aircraft be