apan); and 7.92mm MG15 (Germany). Some air forces were introducing heavier calibre machine guns offering greater bullet energy and range, e.g. the 12.7mm BS (USSR) and 12.7mm Breda-SAFAT (Italy), while the USAAC had standardized on the Browning 0.5in gun. More lethal still because of their explosive shells, cannon were larger and less easy to mount flexibly on a bomber than, say, fixed on a fighter. Nevertheless, a few bombers carried them, e.g. the Mitsubishi G3M2 Model 22 (one 20mm Type 99) and the LeO 451 (one 20mm Hispano-Suiza 404). Gun locations on bombers varied, with nose, mid-upper, tail and ventral positions common. Tail guns were important, and were most practical on larger bombers, although as yet the B-17 did not have them. While ventral positions were also difficult, many medium and heavy bomber designs included one, some (e.g. Whitley and LeO 451) being retractable. But the Wellington had only nose and tail turrets, the ventral guns having been replaced by beam guns. The Stirling introduced the RAF's standard heavy bomber armament of eight Browning 0.303in guns (two each in nose and dorsal turrets, and four in a tail turret); the lack of a ventral gun position was to cost Bomber Command crews dearly. The Soviet TB-7/Pe-8 was unusual in having manual gun positions in the rear of each inboard engine nacelle, reached by crawling through the wing structure. But it was never possible to provide a single bomber with as great a fire power in every direction as a fighter could have in just one direction; hence the argument for a tight group of bombers providing mutual protection. Gun Turrets In the 1930s, some bombers having open positions with manually handled guns were still in service. But increasing flight speeds made it more necessary to protect the gunner from windblast, and to help overcome the strong and turbulent air loads on the protruding guns. By the mid-1930s most new bombers had enclosed gun positions (albeit with gun/viewing apertures) but reta