on the other hand a rack malfunction prevented release (as on 5 February and 2 March), the rest of the formation also failed to bomb. But the quest for a more compact bomb pattern continued. Around March 1944 some 8th AF B-24 bombers were equipped with a 'Marker Beacon' radio bomb release (RBR) system, in which the Norden sight's automatic bomb release on the lead aircraft also caused a radio transmitter to send a signal which was picked up by receivers on the other aircraft, to activate simultaneous release of bombs on the other aircraft. In the autumn, B-17s were being fitted with an improved 'Crawfish' RBR, using the 'Azon' radio system with three frequencies in parallel to avoid jamming. In the Pacific, by 1944 P-38Js with long-range tanks were providing escort for 5th AF B-24s attacking distant Japanese-held island bases. On a much larger scale in the ETO, the initial US use of escorts required groups of fighters  1944 238 DAYLIGHT BOMBING TECHNIQUES to rendezvous with the bombers and accompany them until relieved by other fighters. But in January 1944, the 8th AF began using an area relay system, in which fighters were assigned to patrolling a given area (P-47s for the near areas, P-38s and P-51s for the further ones) until the bombers had passed through. Initially, the escorts flew close to the bombers to provide protection. But during February, as the escort force grew rapidly in strength, an increasing proportion was able to leave the bombers and actively seek out the Luftwaffe. By the end of 1944, some P-51s were being fitted with 'Rosebud' transponders enabling long- range identification and control by an MEW station at Gulpen in Holland. US Formation Bombing by Fighter-bombers Single-seat fighter-bombers were economical in terms of bomb weight delivered per crewman, and had less need of escorts. But the German use of fighter-bombers for high-level bombing had made no provision for achieving accuracy. Now the USAAF proposed using a tight formation of them