oadcasting transmitter at Minsk near Poland's eastern border began operating for extended periods with frequent station  Cano 66 1939-40 NAVIGATION, BLIND BOMBING AND RADAR identification, as a navigational aid to German bombers on deep penetration raids. [Bethel, 1976:303]. These included the first of 60 attacks on Warsaw itself, and one on the PZL aircraft factory near Warsaw. In Britain, to prevent enemy bomber crews from taking bearings on the BBC broadcast- ing transmitters, a contingency plan was implemented whereby stations at three different locations transmitted the same signal on the same frequency. In May 1940, the Germans began installing radio beacons on the Channel coast to aid flights over Britain. But the first British GPO/Plessey 'Masking Beacon' or 'Meacon' countermeasure became operational in July. This could pick up a beacon's signal and retransmit it from a different location, the duplication preventing a true position fix. As the number of Meacons grew, the effect on German operations over Britain increased, despite continual changes of frequency and call sign. In Britain, two new radio navigation aids ids were proposed at the Telecommunications Research Establishment (TRE) in 1940, the 'G' system (passive - transmitters on the ground), and the 'H' system (active - transmitter on board the aircraft). The 'G' system (later 'Gee') was adopted for development. Although it was less accurate, enemy fighters could not home onto aircraft using it, and it was usable by many aircraft at a time. The 'H' system would be resurrected later. Also developed in Britain in 1940 was the revolutionary 'resonant cavity magnetron' valve devised by J.R. Randall and H.R.H. Boot. This offered the prospect of airborne radar using much shorter (centimetric) wave- lengths, giving higher resolution usable, e.g. for ground imaging. German use of Blind-bombing Aids: X-Verfahren and Knickebein The invasion of Poland enabled the Germans to to try out X-Verfahren. The mobile t