ised at the throttle level needed to keep pace with them. Desert dust plumes: an unusual view of RAF Boston light bombers on a featureless North African desert airfield in 1942, starting engines in preparation for a raid. The pervasive and abrasive dust kicked up, e.g. by propeller slipstreams as shown here, or by moving vehicles or high winds, were a major menace to desert operations. Blitzkrieg in action: a Junkers Ju87 Stuka dive-bomber releasing one 250-kg and four 50-kg bombs. With fighter cover, the Ju87 performed with devastating effect over the battlefield during 1939- 41. Despite pleas from the British Army for similar support, the RAF refused to recognize the potential of the dive-bomber, and used the Hawker Henley for target towing.  Canon Above: A curiously peaceful scene: Luftwaffe Dornier Do17Z light/medium bombers being serviced on a grass auxiliary airfield at Freux in German-occupied Belgium, summer 1940. The close dispersal and absence of AA weapons, sandbags, revetments, etc., suggest there was little fear of air attack. Left: The Eindhoven Raid: on Sunday, 6 December 1942, 93 RAF light bombers made a low-level daylight raid on the buildings comprising the Phillips electronics works at Eindhoven in Holland. Here, late in the raid, two Bostons have approached above the smoke for a better view to find the best aiming point. The raid was a success but 15 aircraft were lost. Heinkel over London: the distinctive bends of the River Thames enabled German crews to navigate over London even at night; attempts to disguise it by floating a non- reflecting layer of coal dust over the surface were unsuccessful. Here, a Heinkel He111 medium bomber, mainstay of the German bomber force, flies over London in daylight, summer 1940; the Isle of Dogs is on the right. The U-boat pens at Lorient: the British had other priorities when they were incomplete, and the Americans were the first to attack them when they had their 4-m thick concrete roofs in place and were no l