-3s each released two SPBs in a night attack on a Danube crossing point being used by German forces, the rail bridge at Cernavada; all six aircraft returned safely. Later (c.1942) the Germans were themselves to consider the use of parasite dive-bombers, apparently for anti- shipping use; in one scheme, the dive-bombers were to have been able to re-attach to the carrier aircraft for the return flight. [Baumbach, 1986:110]  Can NIGHT BOMBING 1941 120 Japan Strikes; the Start of the Pacific War On 7/8 December 1941, Japanese forces began co-ordinated surprise attacks and landings, spearheaded by carrier-based air power, over a 6,000 miles spread of ocean between Hawaii and Singapore. The first and most vital attack, on the Aichi D3A1 US naval base at Pearl Harbor, used 353 carrier-based aircraft: escort fighters; Nakajima B5N-2 attack bombers for high-level and torpedo bombing; and dive-bombers. Two separate strikes were mounted, but a third was cancelled as the Japanese overestimated their success. The raid damaged much of the US Pacific Fleet and destroyed most fighters and bombers on the bases Wheeler and Hickam, at a cost of 29 Japanese aircraft; but the four US aircraft carriers had not been present, only the battleship USS Arizona was permanently sunk, and the vital oil installations and workshops remained intact. The Pearl Harbor attack precipitated the US entry into the war, so effectively deciding its outcome; and in one view of the attack's implications for naval/air warfare, 'the Americans learned vital lessons at negligible cost' [Hough, 1986:79]. The air raid on Singapore was achieved before dawn; despite 30 minutes radar warning, the 17 Japanese bombers from Indo-China found the city fully illuminated, with the night fighters grounded to give the AA guns a free hand. On that same day, the Japanese struck also at Malaya, Guam, Wake. Hong Kong and, crucially, US air bases in the Philippines. The Japanese had practised overwater flights of up to 12 hours dur