ind' adjustment for misplaced or offset markers. Hence the more versatile Mk.XIV was retained for main force use. Advanced Bomber Projects Bomber projects of 1943 included some interesting ones. In Britain, the four-engined Percival P.37 heavy bomber was of twin-boom flying wing design. In Japan, the six-engined Nakajima G10N1 Fugako was intended for round trip bombing raids on the US mainland from Japan. In Italy, the Piaggio P.133 prototype was nearing completion at the 1943 Armistice; a development of the P.108B, it carried six 20mm  1943 168 WEAPON DEVELOPMENTS cannon. In Germany, the Heinkel He111Z-2 was a strategic bomber version of the five-engined 'Siamese Twin' Zwillig glider tug. The Junkers company began work on the Ju287 turbojet-powered high-speed heavy bomber, the proposed 25 degree sweptback wing for high-subsonic flight being changed to an even more revolutionary sweptforward one. In September, an Me210 prototype flew with modifications for the projected Me310 pressurized high-altitude bomber and Zerstörer, later cancelled in favour of the Me410. The highly unconventional Blohm und Voss P.163 featured wing-tip nacelles to house the crew, leaving the fuselage free for the engines (a coupled unit driving a large nose propeller), fuel and bombs. The wing-tip crew nacelle was flight tested on a BV141. Weapon Developments Bombing Extremes: German 'Crowsfeet'; the British 'Blockbuster' d containers By 1943, German bombers occasionally dropped co which ejected large numbers of small (5 to 6cm high) four-pointed metal barbs. Known to the British 'crowsfeet', these passive weapons were symmetrical coming to rest on three spikes so that the fourth always pointed upwards. Dropped at night, those falling on roads and runways could puncture tyres, and so immobilize vehicles and wreck aircraft, until they were cleared away the next morning. The British also made air-drops of crowsfoot spikes, in the Far East in 1944. The war's largest blast bomb, the British 12,00