73 and in one sector a large tethered balloon, were also used. It appears that the Luftwaffe also learned to make good use of the ZOS markers. [Boyd, 1977:146] 'H2S' in Service, and German Reactions; X-band Sets Despite objections to the use of the Magnetron valve over enemy territory where its secret would quickly be discovered, 10cm H2S Mk.I was introduced on 30 January 1943, by the PFF in a raid against Hamburg; Bomber Command had demanded the short-term advantage. In the second raid using it, on 2 February, an H2S-Stirling was shot down near Rotterdam. The recovered H2S came as a revelation to the Germans, the resulting 'Rotterdam Commission' causing major changes to current radar projects in an effort to catch up with the Allied centimetric developments. On 22 June, a rebuilt British H2S set was test flown in a He177. The Germans tried to counter H2S using large radar decoy reflectors (wire netting and metal tetrahedrons) but the scale required made the technique impractical. The Mk.I H2S was followed by the improved Mk.II, but Allied development now favoured 3cm X-band sets, the shorter wavelength offering better resolution imaging, able to show lakes, parks, etc. in cities. The TRE 3cm H2S Mk.III was introduced by PFF Lancasters on 22 November in the opening raid of the Battle of Berlin. A US 'H2X' X-band set, was adopted by the USAAF as AN/APS-15 'Mickey' or 'BTO' (for 'Bomb Through Overcast'), for blind bombing on daylight raids. Meanwhile, with Heinrich jammers now compromising Gee over much of Western Europe, the British had introduced a multiple frequency Gee Mk.II in February. Crews were given the reserve frequencies and change times in advance, and at each change, could get a quick position fix before the Germans switched the jammers. Blind Bombing: 'Oboe' and German Intelligence; Egon; Gee-H Despite the importance of 'Oboe', the RAF allowed the Germans opportunities to learn its secrets, by repeatedly using it on minor raids. Only after the success of