ht. Limitations on daylight precision bombing: 15th AF B-17s raid the Wiener Neustadt Bf109 factory, near Vienna. Some bomb bursts appear to be in open country, but the photo also illustrates a serious limitation for daylight bombing: the target quickly became obscured by smoke and dust, preventing accurate aiming by later formations. Paradoxically, on RAF night raids the pyrotechnic markers often remained visible, even through considerable smoke. 'Reaping the whirlwind': Göbbels ordered the evacuation of a million people from Berlin, but the 49,400 tons of bombs dropped by the RAF on Germany's capital still took a considerable toll. Here, some of the dead from an RAF raid in December 1943 are laid out for identification in a Berlin gymnasium, which had previously been decorated with Christmas trees.  Precision low-level night marking: the RAF's raid on the undefended Gnome-Rhône aero-engine factory at Limoges, on the night of 8 February 1944, began with dummy bombing runs to enable the workforce to reach the shelters. Then, as shown by these cine stills taken from 'Master Bomber' Cheshire's Lancaster, marker incendiaries were dropped from 200 ft to cascade over the roofs of the factory, for the bomber crews to aim at. FIDO in action: fog was a major operational problem in northern Europe. Here a Lancaster takes off, at RAF Graveley, using FIDO, dispersing fog by the heat from burning petrol from pipelines either side of the runway. FIDO's flames were often visible through the fog layer from some considerable distance, and attracted the crews of other aircraft in the neighbourhood. Ground-attack sorties: the abrasive limestone dust on the temporary Allied airstrips in Normandy was an unexpected threat, eventually treated by spraying the airstrips with oil or sea-water. Here, 2TAF rocket- and cannon-armed Typhoons leave dust plumes as they take off for a close-support operation, summer 1944; less than 30 minutes later they were back. US 9th Air Force en route: despit