ting). Blast bombs destroyed windows and roofs, giving the following incendiaries a good air supply to build the fires. Operation 'Gomorrah', Bomber Command's second major campaign of 1943 was the Battle of Hamburg in which repeated saturation bombing was used to achieve for the first time the near-total destruction of a major city. Hamburg's coastline ensured a good H2S image, allowing accurate marking whatever the weather. After weeks of dropping leaflets warning people to leave the city ('There is peace now, then it will be eternal peace') [Whiting, 1987:145], the campaign began on the night of 24 July, with bombing by 791 aircraft, and using 'Window' for the first time. The US 8th AF flew 235 day sorties to Hamburg on the 25th and 26th, aiming at the docks and shipyards. Then, the night of 27 July saw the great 'firestorm raid'; 787 RAF bombers used mainly incendiaries to destroy large areas of the city, with fires visible from 140 miles and the smoke forming an anvil-shaped cloud topping 20,000ft. Many of the victims died of suffocation and carbon dioxide poisoning, giving rise to fears that the British had embarked on poison gas warfare. The 'firestorm' raid was followed by two further heavy RAF raids, 777 aircraft on 29 July, and 740 aircraft on 2 August. In the campaign against Hamburg, a total of 9,000 tons of bombs caused over 30,000 dead and millions of tons of rubble. Goebbels rated it 'a catastrophe', but the concentration and repetition which caused such destruction was not repeated for other German cities. Despite  1943 206 NIGHT BOMBING TECHNIQUES AND OPERATIONS 207 Hamburg's devastation, survivors returned and industrial production was gradually restored. Use of a 'Master Bomber'; the Peenemünde Raid The PFF had long sought to use a 'Master of Ceremonies' or 'Master Bomber' to control a raid and so increase its effectiveness. After its use on the Dams raid, the technique was sanctioned for the PFF. Grp Capt. J.H. Searby, as Master Bomber, tried it i